













OceanofPDF.com















Give Yourself Goosebumps: Special Edition
Weekend at Poison Lake


By: R.L. Stine


Published in 1999 by Scholastic Inc.




1
Before you visit Poison Lake, choose a Lucky Number. If you're lucky, your Lucky Number will help you survive your adventure! But will your Lucky Number always work for you? That's the risk you'll have to take!
The four Lucky Numbers are 2, 3, 4, and 5. Each number goes with a story that begins on that page. Choose one and then turn to the same page number. For instance, if you choose Lucky
Number 2, you'll turn to 
PAGE 2
. Number 2 will be your Lucky Number for the rest of that story. It's time to decide. Pick a number. Then get ready to dive into the horrors of Poison Lake!
The story for Lucky Number 2 begins on 
PAGE 2
.
Or choose Lucky Number 3 and turn to 
PAGE 3
.
Or choose Lucky Number 4 and turn to 
PAGE 4
.
Or choose Lucky Number 5 and turn to 
PAGE 5
.
2
"Last one in gets the backseat on the ride home!" you shout. You run, leap, and plunge into the lake with all your clothes on.
SPLASH!
Overhead, a full moon glistens on the rippling water.
"Come on, you chickens!" you call to your friends, who are waiting on the shore. "The water's ... w-w-w-warm."
"Oh, sure," Nathan calls back. "If it's so warm, how come you're shivering?"
"I'm not sh-sh-shivering," you lie.
"Right," Tamika laughs. "Your teeth always chatter like that."
You kick your legs and tread water, hoping you'll warm up if you keep moving. But the water is bone-chillingly cold.
And it smells funny. No, wait. It's worse than "funny." It 
stinks
, you realize. The odor smells sort of like a cross between bad breath and rotting meat. The more you kick your legs to stay afloat, the worse it smells.
A light snaps on in the cabin next door to yours.
"I hope you kids haven't gone in the water!" a voice calls out in the night. "No one's supposed to be swimming in that lake!"
Turn to 
PAGE 17
.
3
"Why can't I go in the lake?" you ask for the sixth time.
"Yeah, why?" your little brother, Benjie, echoes.
Your dad pulls the car up to the cabin your family has just inherited in Vermont.
"I don't know," your dad answers. "It's something Uncle Merton always said. No one around here 
ever
 goes in the lake. And I mean never. The lake's real name is Parsons Lake. But everyone in town calls it Poison Lake. They say if you go in, it will kill you."
"That's just not possible," your mom argues.
"Right!" you agree. "How can a lake be poison? I mean aren't there fish swimming in it?"
"I don't know," your dad answers, shaking his head. "But until we've been here long enough to find out, the lake is off-limits — okay?"
You hop out of the car and race through the trees to get a look at the water. Benjie follows you.
"I dare you to go in," Benjie says. "I'll give you my dessert for a whole week if you clo."
You're a total sucker for your mom's desserts. "Okay," you tell him. "I'll do it. Tonight."
Take a dive to 
PAGE 28
.
4
"It isn't really poison, you know," a strange voice behind you whispers.
You turn from the handmade sign you were reading. The one that says BEWARE: 
POISON
 LAKE.
You find an old woman standing behind you.
Her gray hair tumbles down over a long, flowered dress.
"Excuse me?" you ask politely.
Normally, you wouldn't talk to strangers. But 
everyone
 in Parsons Village is a stranger to you. You and your family just arrived yesterday for a two-week vacation.
Of course, the minute you and your parents got to your rented cabin, you wanted to go swimming. But your next-door neighbors told you that you 
couldn't
 — because the lake is poison.
"But what about this sign?" you ask, pointing toit.
"It's a lie," the lady whispers. "I know the real story. And I'll tell it to you. Meet me in the gazebo on the town green in ten minutes."
You watch as she disappears down the street.
Why would someone want to lie about the lake being poison? you wonder. Whatever the reason, the old woman's story sounds too juicy. You have to find out what it is.
Meet her in the gazebo on 
PAGE 62
.
5
"Come back, Harley! Come back, girl!" you shout. You call to your dog as she races through the trees toward Poison Lake.
You gasp as she dashes toward the water's edge.
"No, Harley!" you shout in a commanding voice. "No!"
Luckily, she stops just in time. Without going in.
"Good girl," you call, running up to her.
You bend over to hug your big golden retriever, petting her neck and trying to explain the situation to her.
"I know it's going to be hard, Harley. Because we love to swim, don't we? But we can't. Not in this lake. Ever. This lake is poison. Understand?"
Of course she doesn't understand. She's just a dog. But you feel better having explained it to her.
You glance around at the beautiful wooded setting where your family's new house is located. You sigh. Why did your parents ever buy a house here? It's pretty, yes. But what good is having a house on a lake you can't swim in?
You glance around and spot a strange old man with a beard....
Hey! Who's he? And what's he doing lurking in your woods?
Go on to 
PAGE 42
.
6
"Nooooo!" you scream, your voice filled with terror.
But it's no use. The moss-man leads you out of your house — and toward the lake.
You climb two short steps to the dock that hangs out into the middle of the lake.
The moon glistens overhead and reflects on the dark shimmering water.
The moss-man grabs you around the waist — and heaves you toward the water of Poison Lake!
Splash down on 
PAGE 26
.
7
Air!
You breathe in the fresh air when Bigfoot finally puts you down.
Whoa! you think, trying to glance around in the dark.
Where are you?
You want to run. But you don't know which way to run! With your face pressed up against Big-foot's fur, you couldn't see where he was taking you.
Finally your eyes adjust to the darkness around you. And you figure out where you are.
You're in a cave.
Uh-oh. It looks as if Bigfoot has taken you back to his home!
Make yourself at home on 
PAGE 43
.
8
You realize you're going to need twice as much luck to find those jewels. So you decide to enlist Jake in your search. After all, you can cover twice as much space in the lake that way.
First thing the next morning, you head over to Jake's house. You tell him the whole story the old woman in town told you.
"We've got to find those jewels," you say.
"Forget it," Jake says. "My dad would kill us if we went in the lake."
"How come?" you wonder. "I mean, he said the lake wasn't poison."
"Yeah, but he also said we 
never
 go swimming in that water," Jake replies. "It's a family rule. Besides, how are we going to find jewels buried at the bottom of a murky lake?"
He's right, you realize. That would be pretty tough. Hmmm.
Forget the jewels. Instead, you and Jake spend the next two weeks swimming in his pool. Lucky you!
And in fact, you're so lucky that you leave Parsons Village without 
ever
 finding out where the jewels really are! Sure — that doesn't sound lucky at first. But think about it — who wants to get mixed up with jewel thieves? Not you! And that's why you're still alive when you come to...
THE END.
9
The instant you think about using your Lucky Number, 3, two more spaceships appear in the night sky.
Uh-oh. Now all 
three
 of them are zooming toward you, instead of just one!
Your stomach twists into 
three
 knots.
Your head pounds 
three
 times as hard.
You got three times as much luck, all right! 
Bad
 luck.
Maybe you should just close the book for a while. Like for three minutes. Then start over and try three more times to find a good ending. If you don't succeed — take the hint. Maybe the number 3 isn't so lucky for you in...
THE END.
10
You decide to go to the Ben and JoJo's store in town. You show up the minute they open the next morning.
When you walk in, you find only one person working there. A high-school kid, about eighteen years old. His name tag says RANDY. He looks like a nice guy, so you decide to take a chance and tell him the truth.
"I know this is going to sound weird," you begin. "But last night I went swimming in Poison
Lake and —"
"No way," Randy interrupts. ''You didn't. No one 
ever
 swims in Poison Lake. And if they do, they don't live to tell about it."
"Well, I did," you insist. "And you won't believe what happened to me."
"What?" Randy asks. He sneers at you — like he thinks you're kidding.
You ignore the look on Randy's face and tell him about the spaceship. And the aliens.
"So I've got to have the recipe for Crazy Cola ice cream or I'll die," you explain. "Do you know how I can get it?"
"
I
 know the recipe." Randy's eyes dance. "But I can't tell you. It's top secret."
Try to talk him into giving you the recipe on 
PAGE 59
.
11
Mrs. Bitterman leads you to a sofa in the den. She brings you water to drink and a cool cloth for your head. She tucks a light blanket around you.
Then she tiptoes to the door.
On her way out she says, "I hope you've learned your lesson — about swimming in Poison Lake."
"I sure have," you answer. "I'll never go in there again!"
"Good," Mrs. Bitterman says with a smile.
"But am I ... am I going to be okay?" you ask.
"Oh, probably," Mrs. Bitterman answers brightly. She closes the door.
Weird, you think. She doesn't seem very worried about you. Not since you said you wouldn't go back in the lake.
You lie on the couch for an hour or more. Soon you feel better. You get up and start to open the den door.
But you hear voices in the living room. The Bittermans. Talking.
"Good work," Mr. Bitterman says to his wife. "That rotten raw egg you put in the chocolate milk did the trick! A good case of food poisoning — just what we needed!"
Food poisoning? Whoa! What's going on here?
Eavesdrop some more on 
PAGE 18
.
12
Your mouth is open in a scream of fear.
Which makes it the perfect target!
The aliens aim their weapons — and shoot a stream of creamy liquid into your mouth.
Aggggh! You want to cry. It tastes horrible!
You try to spit it out. But the force of the stream is so great, it goes straight down your throat. It burns terribly, almost like it's ripping your flesh off.
A moment later the aliens do the same thing to Randy. They shoot the creamy liquid into his mouth. Then they leave.
"We're going to die," Randy moans, trying to spit the horrible taste out of his mouth.
You could use a little luck here. Add your Lucky Number to 100 and hurry to 
PAGE 103
.
Or if you don't want to use your Lucky Number, turn to 
PAGE 71
.
13
Ahead, you see a small city of underwater beings. Their  bodies look human — like yours. But they swim with a wavy motion, their arms locked at their sides.
And so do you!
"I'm sorry I had to scare you," the moss-man tells you. "But I had to bring you home."
You smile at him, but you still feel a little confused.
"Home?" you're able to ask. "Did I used to live here?"
"Yes," he answers. "You were stolen from the lake twelve years ago, when you were just an infant. You've been raised as a human — although you're really a creature of the lake. Now your true family wants you back."
"I've never been so happy in all my life!" you sing as you swim toward the others. "Thank you."
"You're welcome," the moss-man calls. "Now I am needed up above — to carry on the legend of Poison Lake. That is my job. So that no one discovers us or disturbs us. Good-bye."
"Good-bye," you call, glad to know that no humans will ever want to swim in the lake — and ruin your peaceful watery world.
Wow! Who would have guessed your adventure at Poison Lake would have such a strange, but happy ...
END?
14
Whatever it is, you don't want to stick around to see it, you decide. You kick to the surface and gasp for air. You swim for shore.
Too late.
A giant monster, the size of a dinosaur, rises up out of the water, bringing you with it.
"Noooo!" you scream. You jump off the creature's back.
Whoops. Big mistake.
The minute you hit the water, the thing opens its enormous mouth.
It turns its head — and swoops down on you!
Go to 
PAGE 110
.
15
Harley races into the water, doggy-paddling to get the stick.
No, you think. No. That water is poison! Everyone says so.
What if she gets sick?
"Harley! Come back!" you scream at her desperately.
Once she has the stick in her mouth, she circles around and swims back to shore.
"Harley!" you scold her. "No! Don't ever go in that lake again! Understand?"
You hug her, even though you're a little bit afraid to touch her soaking-wet coat.
What if the poison water gets on you?
You'd better get home — and wash it off. Quick.
Hurry home on 
PAGE 36
.
16
The alien spaceship nears Earth and hovers above you.
Your whole body shakes with pain.
''What's happening to me?" you moan. You feel as if you have some horrible creature inside you. In your stomach. And that it's eating you from the inside!
Then all at once you have the urge to throw up. You open your mouth and ... "REEEEEEEEHHH!"
Something horrible — and alive! — shoots up from your insides, through your throat, and leaps out of your mouth.
Leap to 
PAGE 135
.
17
Whoops!
You hear the words, and your heart skips a beat. You just got here. Did you already do something wrong?
"Uh — no," Nathan covers. He turns to face the woman, who is standing on the back porch of her cabin. "We're not swimming."
''Who's out there?" the woman calls. "ls that Jeffrey Morgan?"
"No," Nathan calls back.
From the water you watch him walk toward the woman's porch. Tamika follows behind.
"My parents rented the Morgans' cabin for the weekend," Nathan explains. "I brought two friends along."
"Oh," the woman answers. ''Well, that's fine. But I hope Mr. Morgan told you that you can't swim here. No one ever goes in. The lake is poison."
" Uh — n-no," Nathan stutters. "He didn't mention that. At least not to me."
Oh, no! you think, spitting a little bit of water off your wet lips. No wonder the lake smells so bad! It's poison!
Turn to 
PAGE 56
.
18
The Bittermans tried to give you food poisoning! They must have done it while you were swimming and your food was sitting on the picnic table — to make you think the lake was poison! And it nearly worked!
You listen a minute more, with the door cracked open just slightly. The Bittermans are talking about the jewels. About how they found them — and have hidden them one rowboat-length away from the dock.
"Anyway, they're all ours now," Mr. Bitterman says. ''When the time is right we'll grab them and get out of this dump. I don't think that kid will go near the lake again. Or give us any more trouble."
Yikes!
Get out of the Bittennans' house as soon as possible on 
PAGE 45
. Or do you want to take some precautions and use your Lucky Number first? Add your Lucky Number, 4, to this page number. Four plus 18 equals 22. Turn to Lucky 
PAGE 22
.
19
SPLASH!
"Hey!" Randy splashes around in the water. "Get me out of here!"
You offer him a hand and pull him out.
''What did you do that for?" he shouts angrily. Then he glances down at his arms and gasps in shock.
But you're not surprised — this is all part of your plan. Randy's glowing in the dark. Just like you knew he would be.
"Oh, no! What did you do to me?" he yells at you.
"It was the only way to make you believe me," you explain. "But don't worry. All we have to do is give the ice cream recipe to the aliens, and they'll give us the potion to save our lives."
Randy stares at you as if he wants to strangle you.
"You idiot," he snaps. "I don't know the recipe. It's top secret! I was just joking with you when I said I knew it!"
Whoops. Your stomach turns over when the truth sinks in.
You have to think of another way to get that recipe, or you're both dead!
Turn to 
PAGE 124
.
20
You think hard about your Lucky Number. Suddenly, in the distance, a light pops on. Someone opens a door in a cabin fifty feet away.
"Hellllp!" you scream at the top of your lungs.
"Who's out there?" a man's voice calls.
"Help me!" you cry desperately. "Please! Bigfoot's got me!"
"Bigfoot? Yikes!" the man replies in a high, terrified voice.
BAM!
 He slams the door shut as fast as he can. And turns out his light.
"Wait!" you shout.
Well, so much for your Lucky Number ...
Or is it?
Don't give up on your Lucky Number yet. Add it to 100 and turn to 
that page
.
21
"There is only one cure," the screen says. "It is a potion — and we have it. To get the cure, you must do what we ask. We come from a world with many technological advances. But there is one thing we don't have — what you earthlings call 'junk food.'"
The writing on the screen continues. "We 
want
 junk food. That's why you're here. You must bring us the secret recipe for the new ice cream from
Ben and JoJo's — the one called Crazy Cola. If you fail — as all the others before you have — we will not give you the potion that will save your life.
"Go now. You have two days to discover the secret recipe. When you have it, come to the lake and we will find you. If you fail, you will die."
You finish reading the message, and the aliens grab the computer monitor away from you. Then they shove you into a glass compartment, like a shower. A thick, creamy liquid pours down on you. It covers every inch of your body — except the index finger on your right hand, which a rubber tube has reached out and grabbed so that the cream won't touch it.
What is this stuff? you wonder. What are they doing to me? Covering me in more poison?
Find out on 
PAGE 84
.
22
You place four small pillows under the blanket Mrs. Bitterman gave you. That way, if the Bittermans come in to check on you, they won't notice that you're gone.
You open a window and slip out of the Bittermans' house.
This is my lucky day, you think, as you head toward the lake. You find a rowboat sitting there, just waiting for you!
You climb in and row out to the dock. Finally you plunge into the water, exactly one rowboat-length from the dock.
On your first dive you find the box full of jewels. Wow! Talk about lucky!
You swim to the surface, carrying the old rusty box.
That's when you hear the sound of a small motorboat headed your way.
Uh-oh.
Has your luck run out?
Turn to 
PAGE 67
 to find out.
23
SPLASH!
You swim underwater until you reach the floating dock out in the middle of the lake.
"Aaahh!" The water feels 
so
 good. It's a little muddy and brown, but compared to the heat of the day, it's heaven.
"Poison," you mutter. "Yeah, right."
You climb onto the floating dock and sit in the sun for a.moment. You stare at the water. Hmmm. Could there really be jewels down there? If there are, they could be hidden anywhere, you realize. Maybe even right under this dock!
If you found them, you'd be famous. Maybe even rich! Even if you didn't get to keep the jewels, you'd get a huge reward, for sure! Maybe you'll just take a quick look around to see if you spot them.
You dive into the water and swim to the bottom. You glance around, searching for something shiny. Nope. Nothing.
You kick to the surface, rest, and dive back down to keep searching.
Yeeow! A twisting pain rips through your stomach.
What's that about?
Find out what it is on 
PAGE 133
.
24
The wolf creeps forward. It takes one sniff of you — and shakes its head. It staggers around dizzily — and flops to the ground.
Whoa! Is it dead? You bend down and see the wolf's chest rising and falling. It's alive — your smell just knocked it unconscious!
Wow, you think. I can't believe I actually smell 
that
 bad.
Well, you do. In fact, you're starting to make yourself dizzy.
So close the book and come back when you have your head on straight!
THE END
25
Come on, Lucky 5, you think.
Quickly, you cross your fingers five times — for good luck.
Then you dash into the lake and start swimming. Swimming toward the rowboat. To save
Benjie.
"Hang on, Benjie! I'm coming!" you call, stroking as hard as you can.
Reach the boat on 
PAGE 69
.
26
"Helllp!"
It's your last scream. Your last desperate attempt to get someone to hear you. Notice you. Save you.
Then you fly through the air, launched out into the lake by the strong arms of the moss-man.
As if in slow motion, you fall. Down. Toward the water.
Except...
"Caught you!" your dad cries as you land in his arms. In one smooth motion he catches you and dips you just a bit into the lake.
Huh?
Suddenly, you are surrounded by laughing voices. Voices you recognize. Your morn's. Your dad's.
''What happened?" you ask, feeling really confused.
Find out on 
PAGE 114
.
27
Your heart is pounding too hard. And you're too terrified to do anything that might slow you clown.
So you just run.
Run straight ahead — even though you're headed 
away
 from home. Away from all the houses near the lake.
Away from safety.
"Harley!" you call, wishing your dog wouldn't run so far ahead of you.
Suddenly, she disappears into the woods ahead.
Leaving you alone. Running. With the moss-man behind you.
"Harley?" you call. "Where are you, girl?"
"It's no use," the moss-man calls from behind you. "I sent her away."
What is he talking about? Did the moss-man do something to your dog?
Find out on 
PAGE 79
.
28
You and your little brother are in bed later that night when you decide to make your move.
"You can listen from the window," you tell Benjie. "When you hear a splash, you'll know I'm in the water."
Then you put on a pair of old shorts and a T-shirt and hurry out to Poison Lake.
The air is still and warm. A sliver of moonlight shines through the trees.
This is stupid, you think, standing on the end of the dock. I shouldn't be doing this.
But Benjie dared you. And you want that dessert.
With your heart pounding, you jump in.
SPLASH!
 Okay, I did it! you think. You kick your way to the surface. Quickly you climb out of the lake and ...
Whoa! You gasp as you glance down at your arms and legs.
Your skin is green — and your whole body is glowing in the dark! Lit up like a lightbulb.
Oh, no — I was wrong! you realize. The lake is poisonous!
You're staring at your arms, when everything around you is bathed in a blue light. You glance up.
In the sky directly above you is a spaceship!
Try to stay calm until you reach 
PAGE 41
.
29
The aliens shove the handheld computer monitor at you.
"Do you have the recipe?" it reads.
"Yes." You hand the aliens the napkin. "Use eight quarts of cream," you add, pointing to the smudged number."That's an eight — not a three." You cross your fingers, hoping you're right.
The monitor displays another message. "Wait here."
The three aliens run from the main chamber of the spaceship, and lock you inside.
Twenty minutes later they return with a big tub of freshly made ice cream. And three spoons.
''We followed your recipe," the computer monitor blinks. "Now we'll eat the ice cream. If it is good, we'll give you the potion to save your lives."
All three of them dig in. Hungrily.
When the tub is empty, the aliens gaze at one another and smile. Until ...
Turn to 
PAGE 118
.
30
You hurry away from Poison Lake, back toward the lights of the town. You don't know how to get Ben and JoJo's recipe. All you know is that you hope your Lucky Number will help you find it. You jog for what seems like three miles.
"Lucky three," you chant, over and over.
And it works!
The minute you reach town, you see Ben and JoJo walking along the street. You recognize them from their pictures on the ice cream containers. And they're both eating ice cream cones.
Wow! you think. Now 
that's
 lucky!
You rush up to them and start babbling, telling them your story. About how you went into Poison Lake and started glowing in the dark. And how the alien spaceship came down and demanded the recipe for Crazy Cola ice cream.
And now you're sick. You'll die if you don't get that recipe!
Ben stares at you for a moment. Then he glances at JoJo.
Oh, man, you think. I must sound crazy. They're going to laugh at me. Or call the police. Or tell me I'm nuts.
But Ben and JoJo don't say a thing. They just stare.
What's going on? Find out on 
PAGE 66
.
31
"Let me go!" you scream desperately. "Let me go!"
You struggle to get free, kicking at Bigfoot's furry sides.
"GRRRRRR ..."
He growls angrily and shakes you.
Ow! Your head whips back and forth. If this keeps up, it will snap right off your body!
Then Bigfoot starts running through the woods. His huge feet thud on the ground. Each step is a violent jolt to your body.
"Helllllp!" you scream, hoping that your voice will be heard in the night. Will anyone hear you?
Maybe your Lucky Number will help you out.
To keep on screaming, turn to 
PAGE 68
....
Or try your Lucky Number again. Go for ten times as much luck this time. Multiply your Lucky Number by 10, and turn to 
PAGE 20
.
32
The old woman must be right, you decide. At least she really sounded like she knew what she was talking about.
Besides — how could a whole lake be 
poison
?
You're going in, you decide. Even if you don't find any jewels, at least you will have gone swimming. You hurry back to your cabin, change into your bathing suit , and start down toward the edge of the water. But behind the cabin you see a note, from your parents, sitting on a picnic table. It's next to some food covered in plastic wrap.
The note says: HERE'S YOUR LUNCH — A HAM SANDWICH AND CHOCOLATE MILK. WE'VE GONE INTO TOWN. SEE YOU LATER. AND STAY OUT OF THE LAKE!
Stay out of the lake? No way! you think. You're not going to be fooled by some greedy neighbor's stupid rumors.
"I'll eat later," you mutter to yourself.
You run full speed and plunge with a big splash into the water.
Come to the surface on 
PAGE 23
.
33
"Three is my Lucky Number,'' you tell Randy. "I say we use three quarts of cream."
"Oh, man," Randy moans. He grabs his stomach. "I hope your Lucky Number really is lucky, because I need that potion — and soon."
You glance at him and shiver. His skin is starting to turn gray — just like the aliens!
Is the same thing happening to me? you wonder.
You don't want to hang out long enough to find out.
Hurry over to 
PAGE 52
.
34
You open your mouth wide. And begin to heave. You feel something huge rising in your throat.
No! you think. It's the monster again! No!
"
Blllleeeaaaaach!
" You heave.
PLOP.
 JoJo comes out of your throat! Alive and whole!
"Whoa." Ben shakes his head in amazement.
"Yuck," JoJo comments. "That was totally gross."
Gross, maybe. But you don't feel sick anymore! And there's no monster in sight. You glance at your finger. It's stopped glowing too. The aliens have cured you after all.
And JoJo's alive!
"We did it!" Ben cheers, clapping you on the back. "We beat those aliens! I don't think they'll come back anymore."
"Wow," you mutter. ''The whole nightmare is over. Thanks."
You glance at the cabin your parents inherited. "Well, I guess I'll go home," you say, nodding toward it.
"Whoa!" Ben cries in alarm. "Don't tell me you're living in there! That's the Vampire Cabin! Everyone knows that!"
Vampire Cabin? Uh-oh!
Looks like your adventure at Poison Lake hasn't quite come to
THE END!
35
"Let's do the ketchup bath," you decide. You smell at least as bad as a skunk. And if it worked on Bowzer, maybe it will work on you.
"Okay — wait here," Nathan says quickly.
He hurries into the cabin and comes back out with a giant-sized squeeze bottle of ketchup. Tamika opens it and starts pouring it all over you — right on top of your hair and clothes and everything!
"Rub it in," she instructs you. "It kills the smell."
Eeew. You shudder at the gloppy feel of the ketchup.
''This is totally funky," you say. But you do as Tamika says. You scrub your hair with ketchup — as if it's shampoo. Then you rub it on your face and hands, and scrub it hard into your T-shirt.
When you're done, Tamika grabs the hose again and starts to hose you off. You shiver in the night as the cool water hits your face. Your teeth chatter-again.
"Well? Is the smell gone?" you ask, shivering.
Turn to 
PAGE 116
.
36
When you stop hugging Harley, you stand up and turn around. And realize something. Something weird.
The moss-man is gone. Vanished.
Good, you think, shuddering.
You hope you never see him again.
"Come on, Harley," you coax your dog, heading back toward your house as fast as you can. ''We've got to clean up."
You hurry in through the front door, not even caring that your dog is sandy and wet. All you want to do is tell your mom about the moss-man — and take a shower.
"Hi," your mom says, glancing up. ''Where's Benjie?"
Where's Benjie? Your little brother?
"How should I know?" you answer. "He wasn't with me."
"Yes he was " your mom insists. "I let him walk down to the lake a few minutes ago to find you.
Uh-oh. Suddenly, a knot forms in your stomach.
What if Benjie is — with the moss-man!
Race back to the lake on 
PAGE 58
.
37
You decide to tell your parents everything.
All about the old woman. And the jewel robbery. And getting sick. And overhearing the Bittermans admit they tried to poison you.
When you're done, your father just shakes his head.
"Okay," he says. "I've had enough of this place. We were planning to ask for our money back and get out of here tomorrow. But we might as well leave today."
He packs up the car, and your family drives back home that very afternoon.
But what about the jewels — and the crooked Bittermans? you wonder.
That's none of your concern now that you're safe and sound at home.
Pretty boring, huh?
Well, what did you expect? These stories 
always
 get boring when the parents show up!
But, hey — at least you didn't wind up dead. Just bored to death in ...
THE END.
38
You decide to call the FBI.
You know from some of the shows that you watch on TV that FBI agents investigate alien sightings. And you certainly can't fight these creatures alone!
"Let's go to my house," Randy suggests. ''We'll call the FBI from there. Plus they've probably got doctors who can help us, you know?"
You feel a chill run through you. Your stomach twists. Again and again.
"I hope so," you mutter.
You drag yourself to Randy's house. He calls the FBI and tells them the whole story.
"Aliens, huh?" A man named Agent Morrison yawns into the phone. "Okay. We'll send someone out to take a look."
Ten minutes later the doorbell rings.
"Wow," Randy says. "That was fast!"
He rushes to open the door.
Nooo! You want to scream when you see who's standing there.
It's the aliens!
Slam the door — fast! — on 
PAGE 111
.
39
"Aaaagggh!" you cry. You feel the hands begin to squeeze. You swing your arms around, struggling to get free.
"Calm down," a man says. "Gave you a scare, did I?"
He lets go of your throat and spins you around to face him.
It's Mr. Bitterman, with his wife. The two of them seem to be coming back from a walk in the woods.
"Just kidding around," he says..
You rub your neck. Ha ha, you think. Not funny.
These people are weird.
But you don't care. You need help — and fast. You feel like you're going to throw up again.
Mrs. Bitterman notices the sick expression on your face, and frowns. "Are you all right?" she asks, sounding genuinely concerned.
"No," you moan. "I'm sick. I went swimming in the lake — and now I'm so sick!"
"Oh, dear!" Mrs. Bitterman says. "Come into the house and lie down — quick."
Go into the house? You know you shouldn't go into strangers' houses. But you really need help, so ...
Follow them into the house on 
PAGE 11
.
40
You're feeling lucky — ten times as lucky as usual. So the next morning, at ten o'clock, you hike down to the lake. You swim out to the dock and dive for the jewels.
You plunge into the muddy water, kicking hard to reach the bottom. It's tough to see, but you feel around with your hands on the bottom, clawing at the sand. Nothing.
You shoot to the surface, then dive again.
On your fourth dive a bright burst of sunlight penetrates the murky water.
Out of the corner of your eye, you see a glint of light. It's something sparkly.
Something that looks like a diamond!
Your heart starts pounding. You swim toward the sparkle. No, not one diamond, ten diamonds!
And several rubies too! Lying on the bottom of the lake!
You grab for them. And hear a strange rumbling sound.
The bottom of the lake begins to vibrate. To rise upward!
It's as if something is pushing its way up to the surface from the bottom of the lake!
What in the world is it? you wonder.
Find out on 
PAGE 14
.
41
The small, round ship zips quickly toward the earth. But it doesn't land. Instead, it hovers right over your head, humming.
A panel on the underside of the ship slides open.
HRRMMMM...
You feel yourself being lifted into the spaceship by a force you can't control.
No! This isn't real, you think. It's got to be a dream.
But as you enter the ship, you know it isni a dream. You gaze at your captors. There are three of them. Three aliens. Three small humanoid beings with tiny eyes, huge bellies, and translucent gray skin.
Three. Your Lucky Number. Until now.
You wait, wondering what they're going to do. What they want. What they'll say.
But they don't speak.
Instead, they give you a small, handheld computer monitor and point to the screen.
Read what it says on 
PAGE 77
.
42
You stand up and let go of Harley. Release her from your grasp — just in case she wants to bark at that strange man. To protect you.
But she doesn't bark. Or move. She just watches him carefully. Holding very still.
You do too.
The man is tall and old. Really old. His long beard is gray, and he's wearing strange green pants — sort of like rubber pants, but they're all slimy and moss-covered. His shirt is sort of weird too — a blue flannel plaid, with brown and green stains that look like mossy growths. His pockets are stuffed with leaves and sticks.
And he's staring at you.
Even from a distance you can see that his eyes are a watery blue color.
"How about a swim?" he calls in an eerie voice. A shiver runs up your spine.
Hey! What's he trying to do? Get you to go in Poison Lake?
Find out on 
PAGE 101
.
43
A small beam of moonlight creeps in at one end of the cave.
That's it, you realize. That's the way out!
You make a dash for it. But the minute you make a move, Bigfoot reaches out, picks you up, and sets you back down where he wants you.
You notice a large bed of dried grass and leaves on the floor. It must be the place where Bigfoot sleeps.
Grunting, he moves some of the leaves away, making a smaller bed. Beside his own. He points at it, then at you, as if he's trying to tell you: That's your place. Go to bed. Sleep.
No way, you think. You don't have slumber parties with hairy monsters. As soon as his back is slightly turned, you make another dash for the opening of the cave.
And this time, you escape!
Run to freedom on 
PAGE 121
.
44
Lucky 4, you think. Come on, Lucky Number 4!
You walk slowly, holding your stomach, to the fourth house away. It's a large, modern house with a swimming pool and sliding glass doors facing the lake. You can see the address on the house is number 44. Another lucky sign.
You drag yourself up the deck steps and knock on the door.
Hurry, you think. You grasp your stomach. You feel sicker with each moment that passes.
From inside the house comes a horrible, fiendish howling sound. Not like a dog. Like something larger.
Something vicious.
"Howwwooooool!"
Uh-oh.
That is not a good sign.
Run 
PAGE 85
.
45
Your heart pounds as you glance around the room, searching for a way to escape. There's a window with a screen. But can you slip out of it without being heard?
Quietly you tiptoe to the window and wait for the Bittermans to start talking again. While they're speaking, you raise the sliding screen.
Let me out of here, you think as you climb out the window. You land safely on the other side.
Now what should you do?
You could go get your parents. Tell them everything. Let them handle the Bittermans.
Or you could head down to the water, grab a rowboat, and find the jewels — before the Bittermans get there!
If you tell your parents what happened, turn to 
PAGE 37
.
If you take a rowboat and try to find the jewels, turn to 
PAGE 51
.
46
You sit at the kitchen counter feeling sorry for yourself. Finally, about an hour later, your parents come home.
"Hi!" your mom says cheerfully. "Back so soon?"
"Yeah." You wait for her to catch a whiff of your smell.
But she doesn't. She acts like there's nothing wrong.
"Don't I 
stink
?" you finally blurt out.
"Stink?" Your mom looks at you questioningly. "No — why?"
You tell her about diving into Poison Lake and turning smelly, and how you tried a million things to get rid of the smell, but nothing worked. You leave out the part about Bigfoot. There's no way she'd believe you about that, anyway.
"Well, you don't stink now," your mom says with a shrug. "So something you did must have worked."
She's right. Something 
did
 work. And guess what it was?
Eating chocolate cake!
That's right. It takes a few days, but you finally figure it out. You've got to eat a piece of chocolate cake every day 
for the rest of your life
 to get rid of the smell!
And that's okay with you! Because surviving this story turned out to be a real piece of cake in...
THE END.
47
Your feet make a sloshing sound in the water as you follow the moss-man deeper, deeper into the lake.
The water is up to your waist.
Your shoulders.
Your mouth. Nose.
This is ... 
nice
! you think with surprise.
Somehow, you realize, you're breathing underwater. And it feels good.
You walk forward and happily let the water cover your head.
It's soothing. Like ... going home.
Once you're completely underwater, the moss-man lets go of your hand.
"Come back to us," you hear watery voices singing. "We've missed you so much!"
Turn to 
PAGE 13
.
48
You stumble forward, running as hard as you can into the night. Your heart pounds in terror. There's nothing you hate more than rats.
For one thing, they're hideous, diseased animals. And they're fearless. You saw a program about them on TV once. In the video they ran right up to a big dog and bit him!
No matter where you go, or how far you run, it seems the angry squeal of the rats is never far behind you. There must be tons of them, picking up your scent and joining the chase!
Your mind races. There must be 
some
 way to get away from them....
Suddenly, you spot a clump of trees. With low branches.
Hey, you think. Rats can't climb trees.
Can they?
Find out on 
PAGE 86
.
49
You kick one more time. Hard.
"Ow," the moss-man says, letting go of your feet. But he laughs when he says it.
You struggle to stand up. Fast.
But the moss-man is faster. Quickly he bends over and picks up a stick.
Then he tosses it sideways, as hard as he can, into the water.
"Fetch, Harley!" he calls to your dog.
"No!" you cry, feeling a panic rising up in your throat.
You don't want Harley to go in the water. Not in Poison Lake!
Turn to 
PAGE 15
.
50
You decide to take a chance on your Lucky Number, 2.
Unfortunately, the rats have a Lucky Number also.
Their Lucky Number is 500-because that's how many rats join the chase after you! They form a circle that closes in around you.
Face it. You haven't got a prayer against all those rodents.
Rats! You've reached...
THE END.
51
You're off to the lake, you decide. You've got to find those jewels before the Bittermans take them!
It's the only way to prove the truth to everyone. That the lake isn't poisonous — but the Bittermans are!
You sneak across the grass, toward the water. An old rowboat is sitting there, under the trees. It's sort of wet — as if someone used it recently.
Maybe it's the Bittermans', you decide. You hope so. If you have their boat, they won't be able to follow you out to the dock.
With a heave you turn the boat over and climb in. Two oars are still attached to the sides. You row out to the dock in the middle of the lake.
Quietly you slip into the water and begin diving. You plunge under, exactly one rowboat-length from the dock. It takes a few tries, but finally you feel something down there. Feel it with your foot.
A box! An old rusty box, lying in the mud!
Pull it up on 
PAGE 70
.
52
Randy finds his way to a storage room filled with ingredients. He takes just enough of everything — lemon, eggs, cola, sugar, vanilla, and of course, cream. Three quarts.
Then he finds a portable ice cream maker, and the two of you hurry back to Poison Lake.
As soon as you approach the water's edge, the spaceship appears. It swoops down to hover above the earth. Then the panel underneath opens. In a flash of bright green light, three aliens appear on the ground.
One of them gives you the handheld computer monitor.
"Did you bring the recipe?" it asks.
"Yes." You hand the aliens the smudged napkin. "That's the recipe. Be sure to use three quarts of cream — not eight. And here's all the stuff you need to make it too."
You expect the aliens to be happy. But instead the monitor beeps wildly. "No!" the monitor spells out. "The recipe isn't complete!"
Huh?
Find out what the aliens are talking about on 
PAGE 126
.
53
"Aaaahhh!" you scream in sheer terror.
In the moonlight, you see Bigfoot's face — coming at you. He's huge. A huge, hairy beast, with giant teeth that gleam as he opens his mouth. A thick rope of drool dribbles from his chin.
He puts his face right in front of yours — and stares at you. His eyes are hideous. Yellow. Dead-looking.
You cling to the tree branch, shivering. Shaking in fear.
He grunts, then he reaches out a clawed hand and grabs at you!
You twist away. But just barely.
His mouth is open. He sniffs ... and groans with delight. Like he's sniffing his dinner!
Quick! He's reaching for you again. Do something!
If you drop out of the tree and run, turn to 
PAGE 75
.
Or maybe your Lucky Number will work if you risk everything and go for DOUBLE OR NOTHING. How? Multiply your Lucky Number, 2, by 2. Then add that number to this page number 53. That's your lucky Grand Total. Turn to 
the page
 that is the same as your lucky Grand Total!
54
You claw the ground, trying to hold back. To keep the moss-man from heaving you into the water. Your fingernails dig into the sandy soil.
Please, you think. Someone help me.
Hey — you used your Lucky Number, didn't you?
Of course someone's going to help you!
Almost at once, five teenagers come jogging through the woods. ''Hey!" one of the guys calls out. "What are you doing?"
When the moss-man sees them, he lets go of your ankles and runs off.
"Wow," the guy says, looking at you. "What happened? Was the Woods Guy chasing you?"
"The Woods Guy?" you ask. Your voice shakes.
"That's what we call him," the teenager explains. "He's some kind of freak. He hangs out near the lake all the time. I'd stay away from him, if I were you."
"No kidding," you mumble, standing up.
Then you glance around. Looking for Harley. Where'd she go?
"Oh, no!" you cry. You see the moss-man carrying her in his arms as he runs through the woods.
Run after your dog on 
PAGE 89
.
55
You've ventured so far from your house, it takes you ten minutes to get home. Panting and out of breath, you hurry in through the front door of your house.
Lying there on the rug in front of the couch is your dog.
"Harley!" you cry out in total surprise. "How did you get here?"
But you don't bother to figure it out. Because all of a sudden, you feel so tired you can't stay awake another minute.
This whole day has been a nightmare.
All you want to do is fall asleep and forget about it. You drag yourself down the hall to your room, climb into bed, and fall asleep.
Deeply asleep.
Snooze over to 
PAGE 91
.
56
You swim to the dock as quietly as you can. You don't want this woman to hear you getting out.
Your heart thuds in your chest. Why? 
Why
 did you plunge into the lake the minute you arrived? If waited till morning, maybe you would have seen some warning signs. Or given someone a chance to tell you about the lake.
"Well, be careful," the woman calls to your friends. She turns out her porch light and goes inside.
When she's gone, you stride out of the freezing water and stand there, dripping and shivering with fear in the moonlight.
"Are you okay?" Nathan asks, walking toward you. "Do you think you were really swimming in poison?" He stops short. ''Whoa! What's 
in
 that water, anyway? You stink!"
"Yeccch!" Tamika agrees. She gags and backs up.
''Who knows?" you say, feeling panicky. "I didn't swallow any water. But whatever is in there, I've got to wash it offl"
"Seriously," Tamika agrees. "Let's find a hose or something, back at the cabin."
Good idea, you think. Because you smell so bad, you're making 
yourself
 sick!
Try to wash off the smell — if you can! — on 
PAGE 64
.
57
"GRRRRR ..."
Bad news. While you were going for the Lucky Number, Bigfoot was going for you!
"Mmmm. Ketchup!" Bigfoot grunts at you.
With his powerful arms he grabs you out of the tree.
Oh, man! You didn't know Bigfoot liked ketchup with his lunch — which is exactly what it looks like you are.
THE END
58
In a panic you dash out to the lake.
You see your little brother, Benjie, in a rowboat with the moss-man!
You've got to save Benjie, you realize. Even i f it does mean swimming...
In Poison Lake!
Maybe your Lucky Number will help you. Maybe it won't.
But if you're going to swim in Poison Lake, you're going to need 
a lot
 of luck.
Would it be a good idea to use your Lucky Number, 5 — and use it 
five times
 as much?
If you want five times as much luck, turn to 
PAGE 25
.
59
"Please," you beg Randy. "I've got to have that recipe. My life depends on it!"
Randy laughs. "Right," he says. "And my life depends on playing two hours of video games every afternoon."
"No, really," you start to argue.
But you can tell from the sneer on Randy's face that he still doesn't believe you. Finally you take him into a closet in the back of the store. You close the door so it's nice and dark — and show him your finger. It glows.
"Now do you believe me?" you ask him.
"No way," Randy says with a mean laugh. "You probably dipped your finger in glow-in-the-dark paint or something. And there is still no chance I'm giving you that recipe."
"But you've got to!" you practically shout. Randy could be your only hope!
Suddenly, you think of a way to get him to cooperate.
A very 
sneaky
 way.
"Look, come to Poison Lake with me tonight," you suggest. "Dip your finger in the lake and see what happens."
Randy rolls his eyes, like he thinks this is a big joke.
"Okay," he finally agrees. "I get out of work at nine o'clock. I'll meet you then."
Meet him at Poison Lake on 
PAGE 115
.
60
 No! you want to scream. But you can't. You're completely underwater.
Mrs. Bitterman pushes harder. Harder.
Your heart pounds wildly. Air! You have to get air!
You duck down lower than Mrs. Bitterman's hand. You kick your feet and swim off sideways.
You pop to the surface and gasp for breath.
"Help!" you scream. "Helllp!" Your heart sinks when you realize you're too far out in the lake for anyone to hear you.
You turn. The Bittermans are swimming toward you again! You have to get out of there!
"Fire!" an old woman's voice shouts from the shore. "Fire!"
Fire? You're screaming for help-and some woman is calling fire?
But, hey! you realize. You know that woman! You recognize her voice!
Turn to 
PAGE 112
.
61
"Get them off me!" you shout. You wave your arms wildly to shoo the bugs away.
But the flies and gnats circle closer. One by one, they begin dive-bombing your face.
"Maybe they're attracted to the smell," Tamika guesses.
You try to answer and — agggh! Two of the bugs fly right into your mouth!
You spit them out. "Get away from me!" you scream, running away from the swarm and flapping your arms.
That's when you hear the sound of twigs breaking. Behind you. In the woods.
You whirl around to see what's there — and scream.
Your gaze locks on the icy-blue eyes of a wolf!
The animal stares right back at you. It sniffs the air and steps forward.
''Whoa!" Tamika cries. "It can 
smell
 you. You have to get to the cabin. Run!"
But before you can move a muscle, the wolf leaps!
This wolf has put you in a pretty hairy situation.
Run to 
PAGE 78
 to try to get away!
Or TAKE A CHANCE on your lucky Number, 2, by adding it to 78. Then hurry to 
that page instead
.
62
The old woman hobbles up the steps to the gazebo. She glances around to make sure no one is listening.
"I was afraid they were following me," the woman explains, checking over her shoulder again. "I had to take the long way here."
"Who would follow you?" you ask.
"The Bittermans," she answers. ''They're the ones who made up the story about Poison Lake." You stare at her, confused. The Bittermans?
They're the neighbors who told you to stay out of the lake in the first place!
"It started fifteen years ago," the old woman explains. "There was a jewel robbery about a hundred miles from here. The thieves ran from the police and hid the jewels at the bottom of Parsons Lake. The police hauled the crooks off to jail. But the Bittermans saw the thieves hide the jewels. Saw the whole thing from their porch overlooking the lake." She pauses.
"I don't get it," you say, shaking your head. "What does that have to do with the lake being poison?"
"I'll tell you," the old woman says with a smile, motioning for you to come closer.
Find out the secret on 
PAGE 76
.
63
Wait! Maybe your dog can help you, you think. "Harley!" you scream. "Har-ley!"
Where is she?
You kick your feet, trying to shake free from the moss-man's grip.
Finally Harley trots through the woods. Slowly.
As if nothing's wrong.
"Harley!" you scream. "Bite him! Helllllp me!" Harley wags her tail. And does nothing. She acts like the moss-man is a harmless friend!
"Into the lake," the moss-man whispers as he tries to hurl your body, feet first, into the water.
Turn to 
PAGE 49
.
Or, maybe you could use a little luck here. TAKE A CHANCE on your Lucky Number. Add 5 to 49 and turn to 
PAGE 54
.
64
You shiver all the way back to the Morgans' cabin. It's in the woods, up the hill a bit from the lake.
"There's a hose," Tamika notices, hurrying ahead of you. She picks up a green garden hose under a yellow bug light. "Come on — I'll wash you down."
Tamika aims the hard, cold stream of water at you. You shiver even more, but who cares? You just want to get the smelly stuff off. And make sure you're not poisoned.
Finally she stops squirting.
"Is it ... g-g-gone?" you ask, your teeth chattering.
Nathan makes a face like he's going to barf. "No way," he says, shaking his head. "It's worse!"
Tamika's eyes open wide.
"Whoa!" she cries, making a face. "Look at all those bugs!" She points just above your head.
Yikes! you think. A swarm of gnats and flies hovers above you. They dive down at you — and 
bite
 you!
Hey, fly bait — turn to 
PAGE 61
 before you're eaten alive!
65
No one will ever believe your story, you decide. Your only chance is to find the recipe in the Ben and JoJo's factory.
Randy drives there. The building is huge and dark. You shudder. It's totally creepy-looking.
"I was here for my training," Randy explains. "So I know the layout of the place. Come on."
Randy leads you to a back door. He knocks. No answer.
He turns the knob. The heavy metal door swings open with a creak. You gulp and walk through the doorway.
It's obvious that you're in the Ben and JoJo's main office. There are two desks on either side of the room, and giant pictures of ice cream all over the walls.
You and Randy walk to a large file cabinet, open the drawers, and search through the files....
No recipes. Not even one.
"Oh, man," Randy moans. He holds his stomach.
"I'm getting sicker every minute."
"Me too," you mutter. You're not crazy about going farther into the dark factory, but what choice do you have?
You glance around the office one last time. Wait! What's that on one of the desks?
Find out on 
PAGE 96
.
66
"You believe me, don't you?" you ask the two men in a pleading voice.
Ben blinks. He takes your arm and pulls you to a spot around the corner. He looks really upset.
"Yes, we believe you," he says quietly. ''We 
know
 you're telling the truth — because this has happened before."
You gasp. Happened before? "When?" you ask.
"Last summer," JoJo explains. "A kid came from out of town — like you. Out-of-towners 
never
 believe the lake is poison. So he went in and started glowing. Just like you. All the same stuff happened. That time the aliens wanted a recipe for Double Fudge Fantasy."
"Did you give it to them?" you ask hopefully. Ben nods. "We did," he says soberly.
"And did they cure the kid then?" you ask.
Slowly, sadly, Ben shakes his head.
"They're never satisfied," JoJo explains. "After we gave them the Double Fudge Fantasy, they wanted something else. They'll 
never
 go away!"
Gulp. Turn to 
PAGE 72
.
67
Your heart pounds as you realize it's the Bittermans! They pull their motorboat up next to you.
"Thought you'd get to the jewels first, did you?" Mrs. Bitterman says in a nasty tone of voice. Whoops! So much for your lucky day.
Mr. Bitterman pulls out a thick rope and begins tying it to a large, heavy anchor. But the other end of the rope isn't attached to anything — yet.
Then he leans toward you and grabs for you. Oh, no! you realize.
They're going to tie the other end of the rope to 
you
! They're trying to drown you!
Hurry to 
PAGE 107
.
68
The only thing that's going to save you now is to keep screaming, you decide.
"Helllllp me!" you shriek.
When Bigfoot hears you screaming, though, he presses your face to his huge chest.
Ugh! The smell! Bigfoot stinks even more than you do! You suddenly feel like you want to gag.
Don't toss your lunch — just turn to 
PAGE 7
.
69
Finally, you swim up to the rowboat. Terrified, you nervously put your hands on the edge of the boat.
"Bravo!" the moss-man says, smiling at you.
"You're the bravest kid I've ever seen in my life!"
"Just let Benjie go," you say firmly.
"Of course I'll let him go!" the moss-man says. "Because thanks to both of you, I've proven my point — finally!"
"Huh? What point?" you ask, treading water beside the rowboat.
''That the lake isn't poison," the moss-man says. "I've been telling people that for years, but no one will listen. So I had to get someone to come for a swim. See?"
Is this guy for real? you wonder.
Turn to 
PAGE 128
.
70
Using both hands, you tug on the old metal box. But it's stuck. It won't come loose. And you're running out of air.
Desperate for a breath, you yank on it one more time before shooting to the surface, gasping. Whew! You've got it!
"Hello," a deep voice says into your ear.
You spin around in the water to see who's behind you.
"Ahh!" you yelp.
Mr. and Mrs. Bitterman are swimming right there in the water beside you!
"You're 
not
 going to beat us to the jewels," Mrs.
Bitterman says.
She reaches out and places her palms on your head. She begins to push. Hard. Forcing you under!
Try to escape on 
PAGE 60
.
71
Now, let's get this straight.
You've gone swimming in Poison Lake. You've been captured by aliens. You've been told you're going to die in two days if you don't get a top secret ice cream recipe. And now the aliens have shot something horrible into your mouth. Right?
And you 
don't
 think you need a little luck right now?
You 
don't
 want to use your Lucky Number?
Maybe you need to think about this a little more!
Or maybe you should just sleep on it.
Close the book, go take a nap for a while, and come back later. Like when you realize that without your Lucky Number, you have no hope of finding ...
A REALLY GOOD ENDING.
72
"What am I going to do?" you mutter sadly.
"We've got to get rid of them — somehow," JoJo answers.
You have a thought. A brilliant idea! ''Why don't we poison them? I mean, we could throw a bunch of really horrible stuff together and tell them it's ice cream! They'll cure me before they have a chance to realize anything's wrong."
Ben's eyes light up. "Great idea!" he says, nodding. "Let's go cook something up!"
The three of you hurry to Ben's house.
You gather all the poisonous stuff you can find. Drain cleaner. Silver polish. Floor wax. Dish detergent. You pour it into an ice cream maker, add some cream, and — voila!
You carry the ice cream out to the lake.
"Hold up your glowing finger," Ben says. ''The aliens will sense your presence."
You stick your finger up in the dark night air. The spaceship appears and zooms close.
"Ohhhhh," you moan as you gaze at it. You double over, holding your stomach. "I'm so sick! I hope this plan works."
Looks like you could use some luck about now....
Do you dare go for THREE TIMES AS MUCH LUCK? If so, multiply 3 by your Lucky Number, 3, and turn to 
PAGE 9
.
Or just go to 
PAGE 16
 while you're still able to turn the pages!
73
You take a deep breath, ready to spill the entire story to Nathan's mom.
"Delicious!" she says. "It smells absolutely delicious!"
Huh?
"You have to give me the recipe for whatever you kids have cooked up!" Nathan's mom insists. You realize she's talking about the concoction you made from the stuff in the kitchen. Hmmm. If it really smells that yummy, maybe you should just mix up another batch, you think.
Which is exactly what you do. Soon Nathan's mom is putting the stuff on chicken, on hamburgers, on everything. So is Nathan's dad, and
Nathan and Tamika.
You've got a genuine hit on your hands, you realize. So the moment you get home, you start your own company and write your own logo: "Bigfoot Sauce Factory — the big sauce with the big taste!"
You make millions selling your sauce to chefs all over the world.
Who knew that one dip in Poison Lake would spice up your life so much?
THE END
74
"Let me go!" you cry, twisting your head to see who's there.
Huh?
You gaze up into the smiling face of a kid about your age. He's got a rubber claw on one of his hands. It's some kind of Halloween prop. He helps you to your feet.
"I'm Jake," the kid says. "Hope my werewolf tape didn't scare you. I love werewolves. Aren't they the coolest? Howwwoooool!" He howls loudly, stretching his neck and imitating the tape.
You don't ansv.1er. You can't. You're too sick. You moan and grab your stomach.
Jake frowns. "Hey — you're really sick, aren't you?" he says. "Stay here. I'll get my dad. He's a doctor."
Oh, great, you think, moaning.
With my luck he's probably Dr. Frankenstein!
Is he? Meet Jake's dad on 
PAGE 119
.
75
You can't leave this to luck. You have to make a run for it, you decide. You glance at the ground and gulp.
Even if it's a long way down.
The beast growls and swipes at you with his heavy claws.
With a quick, deep breath, you let go. And fall.
"Aahhhh!" you cry on your way down. Then — "Oof!"
Wait! What happened? You're not falling anymore!
Oh, no! Bigfoot has snatched you right out of the air. You're toast!
Pop up on 
PAGE 31
.
76
"The Bittermans made up the story about the lake being poisoned," the old lady whispers, "so that no one else will go into the lake and find the jewels. They're greedy. They want to find the jewels and keep them for themselves."
Boy, you think. It would be great if this woman is right. If the lake isn't poison.
"So you think it's safe to swim?" you ask sort of meekly.
"I think it's safe to go looking for the jewels!" the woman says with a twinkle in her eye.
Then she hobbles down the gazebo steps and totters off across the green. A moment later she's gone.
Hmmm, you wonder. Go looking for the jewels in Poison Lake? Sounds like an adventure. And at least you wouldn't be bored — with nothing to do in this tiny little town.
Then again, do you really want to take the chance? After all, the old lady 
could
 be wrong.
If you're willing to go into the lake, turn to 
PAGE 32
.
If you're not, turn to 
PAGE 87
.
77
You read the computer screen. It says:
''We have buried an extraterrestrial rock in the middle of Parsons Lake. The rock gives off radiation. That's what's making you glow.
"The radiation will also make you weak and sick-sick enough to die within two days!"
Your heart nearly stops when you read those words.
No, you think. No way! I — I can't die!
The aliens laugh at you silently, soundlessly.
Great! They think something is funny here. Then some more words appear on the small computer screen.
Get the joke on 
PAGE 21
.
78
This is no time to rely on luck!
You take off running. Running wildly through the woods.
The wolf follows you. You can hear its long, swift strides. Gaining on you.
You glance over your shoulder and see its open mouth. Fangs gleaming.
You try to pick up speed. Pumping with your legs. Running as fast and as hard as you can.
But the woods are thick. You stumble over a fallen log and scramble to right yourself again. You push through some thorny bushes and find yourself…
Trapped!
You must have run in a complete circle, because Poison Lake is right in front of you!
You turn. Behind you, the wolf is ready to pounce!
Sorry. No choice here. Get ready for another dip in the lake on 
PAGE 131
.
79
"I sent your dog away," the moss-man repeats in an eerie voice. "You won't need her — when you're in the lake."
A chill of terror runs up your spine.
When you're in the lake.
He sounds as if he 
knows
 he's going to get you to go into Poison Lake — no matter what.
You keep running, but your heart is hammering so hard, you feel like you're about to collapse.
"Give up," the moss-man calls. "You can't escape."
I've got to escape! you think. But you feel your body slowing down. Almost against your will.
"That's right," the moss-man calls. "Take a rest. Now."
As if his words are hypnotizing you, you stop running and fall on the ground, exhausted.
Inside you're desperate to get up again. Run. Get away from him. But the power of his voice seems to be holding you there.
"Yes," he says, standing over you. "Catch your breath. Rest. Then you'll take a swim. In the lake."
Hit the water on 
PAGE 122
.
80
You decide to take a chance on luck. Quickly, you pick up two rocks — since 2 is your Lucky Number. You throw them at the wolf.
It works! One rock lands right in front of the animal. The wolf turns around, frightened, and darts back into the woods. You're safe. For now.
"Wow," you say softly, letting out a sigh of relief. "That was close."
Then you notice Nathan's eyes. They're still open wide. He's staring in alarm at something behind you....
You whirl around and nearly choke.
A huge, hairy creature is lurking behind you!
You gasp. No way is it a wolf. Wolves don't stand on two legs.
It isn't a bear, either. It's too big.
It looks more like a ten-foot-tall human — covered in fur.
What in the world ... ?
The creature grunts and sniffs the air. Then it leans forward as if it's sniffing for 
you
!
"Run!" Tamika screams. She takes off into the darkness.
Your Lucky Number worked last time — so try it again! Add 2 to this page and run to 
PAGE 82
.
81
Holding your stomach, you drag yourself through the trees to the house next door. The Bittermans' house.
You knock on the door. No answer.
But there are cars parked outside. So 
someone
 has to be home. Right?
"Hello?" you call, pounding on the door again. "Anyone here?"
No answer.
You're about to turn around and leave, when a pair of hands grabs you from behind. And locks on to your throat!
Turn around on 
PAGE 39
.
82
You can barely breathe, your heart is pounding so fast.
You know what that hairy creature is, you realize. It's something you've only read about in stories. Or seen in movies. Something that most people think doesn't even exist.
You can't believe it, but — it's Bigfoot! And, boy, does he ever exist!
The creature lurches forward in the dark. Straight at you.
Desperately you glance around for someplace to hide. Yes! There's a small toolshed a few feet away. You dart inside.
You slam the door shut, pulling hard. Holding it closed. But you can hear the animal nearing.
Huge, clomping footsteps crush the earth outside.
Then ... a clawing sound on the shed walls. "Help!" you cry.
The creature strikes, slamming on the door and the walls of the shed. The tiny structure shakes violently.
It's going to break apart!
Turn to 
PAGE 113
.
83
Home! you decide. You've got to get home.
But it's hard to change directions with the moss-man chasing you.
Finally you see a clearing — a place where you can make a wide arc and run the other way. You go for it.
But as you're coming around the curve, heading back toward home, the moss-man cuts you off!
He leaps at your legs, grabs you around the ankles, and tackles you to the ground.
"Ahhh!" you cry as you fall, face first, into a pile of leaves.
You wriggle to turn over. The moss-man smiles. You gag when you see his teeth. They're green. Even they are covered with moss.
"The water," he says softly, soothingly. "You belong in the water."
Then he grabs your ankles and starts dragging you across the ground toward the lake.
Get dragged over to 
PAGE 63
.
84
As soon as you step out of the alien shower, your skin feels different.
"What's happening?" you mumble. Your head spins. For a moment everything is a blur.
You blink, gaze around, and realize that you're back on Earth. Standing alone at the edge of Poison Lake.
You glance down at your arms and legs.
Yes! They aren't glowing anymore!
The only part of your body that still glows is your index finger.
Okay, you think. Maybe that weird shower cured me. Maybe I can just ditch these aliens and their stupid plan.
A wave of nausea washes over you. You break out in a sweat. Your head starts to pound and ache.
"Ohhh," you groan. You're sick! The alien shower washed off the glowing stuff. But it didn't make you well.
The aliens' warning echoes in your head. You've got to get Ben and JoJo's secret ice cream recipe — and quick! — or you'll die in two days.
But how?
Well, you could go to a Ben & JoJo's store on 
PAGE 10
.
Or you could try your Lucky Number. Multiply it by 10 and turn to 
PAGE 30
.
85
You turn to run down the steps of the deck.
But you're too sick. Your stomach is killing you. Sweating and panting, you stumble and fall. "Ow!"you cry, landing at the bottom of the deck steps on the hard, sandy ground.
Behind you ... footsteps.
Someone, or something, is coming.
"Ahhh!" you cry. A clawlike hand clamps down on your shoulder.
Find out who's grabbed you on 
PAGE 74
.
86
Panting and terrified, you race to the clump of trees and quickly climb one of them.
The rats circle around at the base of the tree, squeaking. A few of them scurry up the trunk a bit, but they can't quite make it. Ha ha! you think. Can't catch me!
Nope, the rats can't get to you. But Bigfoot? That's another matter!
CLOMP ... CLOMP!
 Giant footsteps cause the branch you're hanging on to tremble.
The rats all scatter in fear.
In two more giant steps, the monster catches up with you!
Oh, no! You're going to be a Bigfoot snack!
Scream on 
PAGE 53
.
87
No way, you decide. You're not willing to even stick a toe in something called Poison Lake!
Okay, fine. But then what are you doing in this book?
Maybe you should be reading something a little less scary — like a book called 
Weekend with Stale Cereal
!
Put down the book and come back later — when you're ready to dive headfirst into some 
real
 danger! Because until then, you've got to admit that you've plunged straight into...
THE SHALLOW END.
88
Eight. It's got to be eight quarts of cream, you decide. That's what makes Crazy Cola so creamy! You and Randy take the recipe and hurry back to Poison Lake.
Your stomach gives a sickening churn. You don't know how much longer you can stand feeling this way.
"How do we get the aliens to come get us?" Randy asks.
"I don't know," you admit. "Last time, I think they came because I was glowing in the dark."
You and he glance at each other and nod. Then you both hold your index fingers up in the air. Your fingers glow like light sticks in the dark, starless night.
Immediately you see a glowing object in space.
The ship! It swoops to the earth. The panel in its underside opens.
 
Beam yourself up to 
PAGE 109
.
89
You can't let the moss-man take your dog!
You race through the woods, chasing after him.
"Harley!" you call wildly.
But the moss-man disappears. "Harley!"
You call her name all the way back to your new house.
Nothing. No answer.
Oh, no! you think. Your dog is gone. And the moss-man got her!
Turn to 
PAGE 125
.
Or — if you want to TAKE A CHANCE on your Lucky Number, 5, again, turn to 
PAGE 55
.
90
Oh, no! you think, staring in terror at your own hands and arms.
Then you gaze down at your legs. Your heart thumps.
No! They're furry too!
Slowly, with sheer terror gripping your chest, you reach up to feel your face.
"Noooooo!" you want to scream.
But all that comes out is a low growl. "Grrrr ..."
"Let me go!" you try to say.
You move your lips — but you can't speak. Your voice won't work. You've changed into a creature. Like Bigfoot!
Except that you're shorter. More like Little-foot.
It's the lake, you think. Poison Lake. It's changed you into a creature of the woods. That's why Bigfoot was following you. He could smell you — and he knew what that meant.
You are one of his kind now!
Turn to 
PAGE 134
.
91
"Aaahhhh!" you cry, sitting straight up in bed. "Aaahhhh!"
Your head spins with fear as you realize you are awakening from a dream. A horrible dream. About water. The deep, murky water of Poison Lake.
It seemed so real, you think. Too real.
In the dream, the moss-man pulled you under. Dragged you down, deeper, deeper, so that you couldn't breathe in the water of the lake.
It's just a dream, you tell yourself, still shaking. Just a dream. Just a dream.
Then you turn your head — and scream again. A tall figure stands beside your bed.
 It's the moss-man. He's in your room!
Scream all the way to 
PAGE 100
.
92
The rats scurry toward you, darting across the tiled bathroom floor. Even more squeeze through cracks in the floorboards.
They must all be drawn to your smell!
"No!" you scream. You fling open the bathroom door and race outside.
"Wait!" Nathan calls, seeing you bolt toward the woods. "Where are you going?"
You can't answer. The horrible squeaking of the rats follows you out of the house and through the woods. The sound grows louder. It's as if it's coming from every direction. The rats must have you surrounded!
Think you can outrun the rodents anyway? Turn to 
PAGE 48
.
Or ... if you want to try your Lucky Number, 2, add it to 48 and turn to 
PAGE 50
.
93
The stuff the aliens gave you didn't only stop you from feeling sick. It stopped your finger from glowing!
Which erased any proof you had that you actually saw the aliens!
They must have given it to you so they wouldn't get caught, you realize. So no one would ever know you were telling the truth!
Agent Morrison laughs. "You're the sixth person this month who claimed to have been abducted by aliens. Maybe you should try telling your story to the talk shows. 
They'll
 probably believe you!"
Hey — not a bad idea! you decide.
So for the next few months, you and Randy make the rounds of TV talk shows. You tell your story to everyone who will listen — that you were captured by aliens who demanded an ice cream recipe, or else you'd die!
No one really believes you, but you don't feel bad about it. Being a talk show loony isn't so bad. It makes you oodles of money. And besides, when
Ben and JoJo hear yow story, they name a new ice cream flavor for you — Completely Nuts!
THE END
94
"What's going on? What's that smell?" You hear Nathan's mother's voice. His parents must be back from getting supplies.
No time to answer her. You're hoping this special mixture of stuff will scrub the odor away. And get rid of Bigfoot. You soak for ten minutes in a tub full of water, mixed with the secret ingredients.
The vinegar smells bad. The ketchup looks weird — like blood.
And the parsley sticks to your skin.
But when you climb out and dry off...
"How's this?" you ask Tamika and Nathan, standing in front of them in your bathrobe. Tamika wrinkles up her nose, but nods slowly. "Better," she says. "You still stink, but ..."
"But it's not so gross," Nathan finishes her sentence. He peers out the window. "And no sign of any unwanted hairy guests."
Nathan's mother makes a face. "What is that smell?" she demands again.
Oh, brother.
Confess on 
PAGE 73
.
95
Thanks to your Lucky Number, you are able to go back in time. Back to that afternoon ...
"We're calling the police right now!" your mom insists. "What did this man look like? Tell me."
You tell her, and she calls the police instantly. Four hours later the police arrive with the moss-man in custody.
"His name is Raymond," the police tell you. "He's a gardener who works for a millionaire in town — the Ingersoll family. But Raymond's a little loony. He made a bet with Mr. Ingersoll that he could get a kid to swim in Poison Lake. Ingersoll thought it was just a joke — so he bet a million dollars! Anyway, we're locking him up for stalking. Sorry about that."
Wow, you think. That was a close one!
"But is the lake really poison?" you ask as the police officers turn to leave.
"Oh, definitely," they answer. "Stay out of it."
"What happens if you go in?" you call.
"If you want to know 
that
," they tell you, "you'll have to go to a different ...
END.''
96
On one of the desks in the office, you see it.
It's a wrinkled napkin-with writing all over it. You pick up the napkin and stare at it. It's a recipe.
The recipe for Crazy Cola ice cream!
"Yes! We found it!" you announce to Randy. "We're saved!"
There's only one problem. Part of the writing is smudged.
"Look here," you say to Randy, "where it says how many quarts of cream to use. Is that a three or an eight?"
"It looks more like an eight," Randy decides.
"Yeah — I guess," you agree nervously. But you're not sure. And 3 is your Lucky Number.
If you don't give the aliens the right recipe, there's no way they'll give you the potion to cure you.
You'll die!
Well?
If you think you should use 8 quarts of cream, turn to 
PAGE 88
.
If you want to go with your Lucky Number and use 3 quarts, turn to 
PAGE 33
.
97
"Let me go!" you cry, trying to break free from his bony grasp. Harley barks loudly at him.
You stare at the man's face — and want to scream. It's now entirely covered with green moss! It's as if he isn't a regular old man at all — he's turned into some kind of moss creature!
You kick desperately. But the moss-man is strong. He pushes you backward.
You feel your feet slosh in the edge of the water. No! you want to scream. But fear fills your throat.
In a panic you kick him again and pull away.
"Get away from me!" you shout as you slip out of his slimy hands.
The minute you're free, you start running.
But you're heading the wrong way. 
Away
 from your house! And the moss-man is hot on your heels.
What are you going to do?
If you just keep running, turn to 
PAGE 27
.
If you swing around and run home, turn to 
PAGE 83
.
98
"I've got to get out of these clothes," you announce firmly.
"You should also scrub with a disinfectant soap or something," Nathan argues. "It's not just the clothes that stink — it's you!"
''Wait — maybe you should take a bath in ketchup," Tamika suggests.
"Ketchup?" you ask. You stare at her. Is she nuts?
"Good idea," Nathan agrees. "That's what my dad used to wash our dog Bowzer with, when he got sprayed by a skunk."
A ketchup bath sounds pretty weird. Maybe you're better off with the disinfectant soap.
Nathan glances toward the woods. "It's up to you," he says. "But I think I hear some rustling in there. So make up your mind. Fast."
Well? Which is it? Disinfectant — or the ketchup bath?
If you lather up with some disinfectant, turn to 
PAGE 108
.
If you go for the ketchup bath, turn to 
PAGE 35
.
99
Whoops.
Your ice cream recipe killed the aliens.
Unfortunately, that leaves you stuck back on earth — without the potion to save your life.
Looks like you should have gone with your Lucky Number in that ice cream recipe after all. Because now you're stuck with a very 
un
lucky ...
END.
100
You want to scream, but fear makes the sound catch in your throat.
Your heart pounds so hard and fast, you're afraid it's going to explode.
"Come with me," he whispers.
He bends down. Reaching for you. Grabbing your arm.
"No!" you shout. "Get away from me! Mom! Dad! Hellllp!"
Keep screaming. With luck, maybe they'll hear you on 
PAGE 105
.
Or maybe you'd like to use your Lucky Number in an extra-special way — to back out of this situation, by going back in time! If you want to go backward in time, subtract your Lucky Number from this page and go back five pages. Turn to 
PAGE 95
.
101
You stare at the moss-man for a moment.
"Come on, Harley," you say in a firm voice. "Let's go home, girl."
You take a step toward your house — and the moss-man lurches toward you.
"Into the water!" he cries.
"Aaaah!" you shout, dodging to get away.
Amazingly, he's faster than you are. He grabs you with two bony, slimy hands — and starts pushing.
Shoving you into the lake!
Struggle to escape on 
PAGE 97
.
102
You kick and struggle to get free, pounding on Bigfoot's hairy body, still screaming.
"Whooooooa!" the beast shouts. Oh, no! The huge monster has stumbled on something! He trips, and starts to fall.
You feel yourself plummeting to the ground.
Oh, no! you think, your heart racing. He's going to land right on me!
Find out if you're squashed.flat on 
PAGE 106
.
103
You use your Lucky Number — and count to three to calm yourself down. Then you focus on how your body is feeling.
Wait a minute — you feel great, you realize.
Then you notice something else: The taste in your mouth is gone!
"Are you ... okay?" you ask Randy.
He nods. His face lights up. "Yeah, I don't feel sick anymore!"
Neither of you are aching, sweaty, or feverish anymore.
''Wow! Maybe they gave us the cure!" you guess. "But why?"
DINGDONG!
Uh-oh. The doorbell again. Could the aliens be back?
Answer the door on 
PAGE 130
.
104
While the police keep an eye on the Bittermans, you dive to the bottom of the lake. You find the box of jewels and pull it up. You toss it into the policeman's boat for the ride to shore.
You can barely contain your happiness when you reach shore, carrying the rusted metal box under your arm. You quickly set it on the ground — and open it up.
Tons of diamonds, rubies, and emeralds glitter at you from inside. Yes! You found the jewels! You're rich!
"My jewels!" the old woman in the flowered dress says when she sees the box. She gives you a hug — even though you're dripping wet. "You finally found my jewels!"
"
Your
 jewels?" you ask, wide-eyed. "Wait a minute. What's going on here?"
Find out on 
PAGE 120
.
105
The moss-man grabs you, pulls you out of bed.
No one seems to hear your screams.
Not even your dog, Harley!
Normally, she'd be barking now. Barking and running to your room.
Your voice, filled with terror, shatters the cool night air as the moss-man carries you outside into the moonlight.
Turn 
PAGE 6
.
106
You brace yourself for the worst. For the ten-foot-tall creature to land on top of you, smothering you, snuffing out your life.
But it doesn't happen. Instead, he reaches out to catch himself — and flings you from his hand.
You're free!
Quickly you scramble to your feet and race back through the woods. Back to the Morgans' cabin, where Nathan and Tamika are waiting for you. When you find your friends, you fall on the ground, panting and out of breath.
"Wow," Tamika says, covering her mouth. "What happened?"
"Just give me some dry clothes," you beg her, shuddering. Maybe that will cover the smell.
Quickly you slip into the toolshed and change your clothes. You put on a fresh T-shirt and a brand-new pair of jeans.
Then you rejoin your friends.
"Is the smell gone?" you ask, praying that they'll say yes. That this nightmare will finally be over.
Tamika gags. "No way," she says. "No way!"
Turn to 
PAGE 127
.
107
You drop the metal box and swim toward shore as hard as you can.
But Mr. Bitterman twists the other end of the rope into a lasso. Then he tosses it around your shoulders. He's got you!
SPLASH!
Uh-oh. That was the sound ofthe anchor hitting the water! And the other end of the very short rope is tied to 
you
!
Looks like you're in 
deep
 trouble now. Don't bother opening your mouth to scream — unless you like the taste of muddy lake water. Besides, you sound pretty funny when you say the only two words left in your vocabulary: 
glug, glug
.
THE END
108
Ketchup? Come on.
"Bring me some disinfectant," you decide. That sounds like the best bet to you.
Nathan nods and rushes into the cabin. A few minutes later he's back. You see that he's holding a bottle labeled BEST JOB.
"This is the only disinfectant that didn't have a warning on it about getting it on your skin," he explains. "And it's lemon-fresh."
You pop the cap off the top of the bottle and pour the liquid all over your body — clothes and all.
"Well?" you ask when you've emptied the bottle. "Is the smell gone?"
Find out if you still stink on 
PAGE 129
.
109
You're in the spaceship again!
But this time something's different. It feels as if the ship is — moving!
You glance out a small window.
Yeow! You can see Earth disappearing below you!
The aliens are kidnapping you!
Head for space on 
PAGE 29
.
110
Well — there's good news and bad news.
The good news is, you really did find the jewels. You see that the diamonds and rubies that you tried to pull off the lake floor are encrusted in the skin on the monster's head. 
Embedded above his eyes in rows, like sparkling eyebrows.
The bad news is, you woke the creature up when you grabbed at the jewels. And now you're looking like breakfast.
With one big bite the lake creature swallows you whole.
Which makes this an ending that really bites.
THE END
111
You slam the door. But, to your horror, the aliens walk right through it!
Your heart pounds wildly. What do they want? Why are they here? You back away and trip over Randy's coffee table.
"Aaaahhh!" you cry when you see what the aliens have in their hands.
Weapons! Gun-shaped weapons. But instead of a narrow barrel, there's a wide nozzle at the end.
"No!" you scream as they aim their weapons at you and Randy.
Then they pull the triggers.
Zap over to 
PAGE 12
.
112
You squint and stare at the figure on the shore.
Yes! It's the old woman you met in town. The one who told you about the jewels in the first place.
"Fire!" she cries over and over again. "Fire!"
People rush out of the houses that circle the lake. As soon as a crowd forms, the old woman points to the dock.
"Look!" she cries. "The Bittermans are out there-trying to drown that kid!"
When the Bittermans hear the old woman, they swim away. They try to hide in the water on the far side of the dock. But people on the opposite side of the lake can see them. They grab the Bittermans from the water.
A man in a small motorboat zooms out to rescue you. You can see that he's wearing a police uniform.
"Give me your hand, kid," he instructs you. "And don't try to escape, Bitterman," he calls. "You are under arrest."
"Wait," you tell him as he tries to lift you from the water. "There's something down there that I have to get."
Turn to lucky 
PAGE 104
.
113
All at once, the shaking stops.
Footsteps — large, pounding ones — move away. You hear a car zoom down the road nearby.
You hold your breath. Praying.
Is Bigfoot gone?
"Come out!" you hear Nathan call softly.
You open the door, just a crack.
"That car's headlights scared him off," Tamika explains. "He's gone — for now. But you still stink. So you'd better do something — before he picks up your scent again and comes back!"
"Okay," you agree, still shaking with fear.
''But ... was it really ... did I really see? Was that ... Bigfoot.''
Tamika nods and points at the ground. "It must have been," she says. "Those are his footprints." You glance at them and shudder. They're three feet long!
"And from what I've heard," Nathan adds, "he's not a vegetarian."
Yikes. The way you smell, you know he'll be coming back. You've got to come up with a plan — quick!
Make a plan on 
PAGE 98
.
114
"Surprise!" your mom says. ''We fooled you! You totally fell for our little trick!"
You look up at the dock — and see your mom standing there. Right beside the moss-man.
"Trick?" you repeat. "What's going on here?"
"It's a joke," your mom explains. "Your father came up with it. We know how much you like to be scared. And we know how creeped out you got when you heard the name of this lake."
"You read too many horror books," your dad chimes in.
"So anyway," your mom goes on, "we decided it would be fun to play along with your crazy idea — and 
pretend
 the lake was poison! We got your cousin Phil here to play the moss-man and scare you half to death. We thought you'd like it."
Cousin Phil? you think. But — how could it be? The moss-man reaches under his chin — and pulls the green mask from his face.
Turn to 
PAGE 117
.
115
When Randy shows up at the dock that night, you're already there. Waiting for him. Desperate.
Your whole body is totally weak. One minute you're sweating, the next minute you have the chills. Your head throbs. You've never been so sick in your whole life. Randy better help, after you wasted an entire day waiting for him.
"Yo," Randy greets you.
"I've got to have that ice cream recipe," you plead with him. "Or the aliens will let me die. Please — can't you just give it to me?"
Randy laughs. "No way," he says. "You haven't proved that you really need it yet."
Okay, you think. That's it. I gave him a chance. Now I'll have to go through with my plan.
You take Randy to the end of the dock and point to the water. "Stick your finger in," you instruct. Then you stand behind him.
When he bends down on the dock and reaches into the water, you give him a good hard shove and push him into the lake!
Shove over to 
PAGE 19
.
116
Tamika stops and sniffs. "No," she says, starting to gag. "You still reek."
You feel your throat tighten with panic. What are you going to do? You hurry into the house and lock yourself in the bathroom.
I'm not going back outside, you decide. Ever. Bigfoot won't be able to get me in here. I'm safe.
You breathe a sigh of relief.
Eeee! Eeee! Eeee!
 A squealing cry comes from underneath the floorboards. You glance around — and see a dozen rats squeezing themselves out of the cracks and crevices in the woodwork!
They lift their noses to sniff the air around them.
Then they head straight for you.
Turn to 
PAGE 92
.
117
Yup. It's Cousin Phil all right.
You stare at your parents. "You know, this has been the worst day of my life!" you complain.
"Really?" your dad says, looking sorry.
"Yeah." You smile. "But now that I know it was all a big joke, it's one of the best! What a great scare! It was just like one of the GOOSEBUMPS I like to read."
"Great! I'm glad you liked it. Now let's all go for a swim!" your dad announces. And that's just what you do!
THE END
118
"Eeeerk!" one of the aliens shrieks. "Aaaaagh!" another shouts.
All three of them stiffen. Their arms shoot out at their sides. Their necks go rigid. Their gray skin turns black.
A moment later the aliens fall flat on their backs.
They look — dead.
"Whoa!" Randy exclaims. "What happened?"
You glance at the computer monitor and gasp. The answer is being typed across the screen.
"Too much cholesterol," the screen says. "Too much cream. Heart attacks. Crew is terminated."
Suddenly, the spaceship reverses its course. You glance out the window and see that you're zooming back to earth. "You are free to go," the monitor tells you.
"Great!" you cry. Instantly you and Randy are transported back to the side of Poison Lake.
The spaceship lifts up and disappears into the night.
"Wait a minute!" Randy holds .his glowing finger in the air. ''What about the cure?"
Uh-oh.
Feel sick on 
PAGE 99
.
119
You shiver, waiting to see what horrible thing will happen to you next.
"Hi," a friendly voice says. You glance up. Jake's dad smiles down at you. ''What seems to be the matter?" he asks. l You can only groan in response. Jake's dad carries you into the house.
You answer his questions, telling him about the day.
"It's probably food poisoning," he declares finally. "You shouldn't have eaten that ham sandwich after it had been sitting out in the sun. Don't worry. You'll feel better by morning."
"Don't you think it was the lake?" you ask.
He shrugs. "We never go in it, because we've got a pool," he admits. "The lake water does look a little too brown for my taste. But I don't think it's poison. I think you'll be fine."
He turns out to be right. After a good night's rest in your own cabin, you're ready to hunt for the jewels again!
But, hey — it's a big lake. Huge. If you're going to find jewels at the bottom, you'll need a lot of luck — won't you?
How about ten times the luck? Then again, is that pushing your luck too far? You decide.
If you want to double your Lucky Number, multiply 2 times 4 and turn to 
PAGE 8
.
If you dare to go for TEN TIMES as much luck, turn to 
PAGE 40
.
120
"The whole story I told you about the robbery was true," the old woman explains. "Except I left one thing out. Those jewels were stolen from 
me
! They were all I had in the world. And I've been without them for so long.
"But I had a feeling 
you'd
 find them. That's why
I told you the story. And that's why I followed you here. And I was right. You found them for me. You're my hero!"
The crowd lets out a big cheer for you. Well, you may not be rich, but helping this woman out sure feels good.
"Now that I have my jewels back, I'll give you a reward," the lady tells you.
"A reward? Wow!" you say when you catch your breath.
"And that's not all," the policeman joins in. "I think the people of Parsons Village owe you something too."
"They do?" you ask.
''We owe you a big thanks — because you've finally proved to us that the lake isn't poison!" he says. ''We can all go swimming now. In fact, I think we're going to have to come up with a new name for this lake." He thinks for a moment. "Hey! Why don't we name the lake after you?"
And that's just what they do in
THE END.
121
I'm free! you think.
Until ...
CLOMP!
 You feel the furry hands on your shoulders again.
You're caught!
"GRRRRR ..."
Bigfoot takes you by the hand, like you're a little child. Gripping you tightly, he starts to pull you back into the cave.
"No!" you cry, trying to yank your hand away from his.
You glance down at your hand in the bright moonlight.
"Ahhhhh!" you scream in alarm.
Your hand ... it's furry!
In fact, your whole arm is covered in thick brown fur — just like Bigfoot's!
Find out why on 
PAGE 90
.
122
"It's time," the moss-man commands. "Time to go into Poison Lake."
Then he reaches out to take your hand. Ugh!
Even his hands are covered in slimy, horrible moss!
No, you think. Leave me alone!
But the thought is weak. You can't resist.
The moss-man pulls you to your feet. Drags you toward the water.
And then ...
You feel yourself wading into the murky green-and-brown water of Poison Lake.
That's funny, you think. The water doesn't feel cold. In fact, it doesn't even feel wet!
How can that be?
Turn to 
PAGE 47
.
123
All at once you open your mouth — and your lunch comes out! Ugh!
You throw up in the grass. Your head is hot. You're sweating. You feel sicker than you've ever been in your life.
Oh, man, you think. That old woman was wrong. The lake really 
is
 poison!
I'm going to die!
Unless ... maybe someone can help you!
Your parents still aren't home, so you've got to ask someone else. Someone who lives in one of the other houses around the lake.
The Bittermans' house is right next door. But you can't go there — can you? They're the ones who made up the stories about Poison Lake, right?
Then again, the old woman told you that. And right now it looks like she was totally wrong. Maybe the Bittermans know why the lake is poisonous — and maybe they know how to help you!
It's hard to know for sure.
Looks like you need a little luck here.
Well?
If you go to the Bittermans' house, turn to 
PAGE 81
.
If you want to try a little luck, use your Lucky Number, 4, and go to 
PAGE 44
.
124
Your head spins. What are you going to do now? Before you can decide, the spaceship appears in the sky. It drops down and hovers above the earth. Then, in a blur, it takes Randy on board.
When he returns a few moments later, the only thing glowing in the dark is his index finger.
"What are we going to do?" Randy moans. "I only have two days to live if I don't get them that recipe!"
"I only have one day!" you say. Sweat drips from your feverish head, and your stomach gives a painful churn.
You and Randy decide you've got two choices.
Either you can go to the Ben and JoJo's ice cream factory and try to find the recipe. Or you can call the FBI, tell them about the aliens, and hope they'll help you.
Well?
If you go to the Ben and JoJo's factory, turn to 
PAGE 65
.
If you call the FBI, turn to 
PAGE 38
.
125
Wait a minute.
Your dog is gone ... stolen by a creepy old man in the woods, who tried to kill you by dragging you into the lake....
And you 
don't
 want to use your Lucky Number?
Okay, fine.
But now you're stuck here, facing the two unluckiest words in this book —
THE END.
126
"What's wrong?" you ask. "This is the right recipe — honest. Just make the ice cream and you'll see."
The monitor beeps again.
"No, you stupid earthlings!" it says. "We have all of the information on this napkin! But we don't know how to make 'cola'! You must get 
that
 recipe for us!"
Uh-oh. Get the recipe for cola?
Hey — 
no one
 can do that! It's one of the most closely guarded secrets in the world!
Looks like this story has gone flat for you. Unless you 
do
 know the recipe for cola — in which case, give us a call, and we'll make a deal! .
Otherwise, you'd better face the fact that you've come to ...
THE END.
127
Your friends try everything to get the smell off you before more animals attack.
They scrub you with special soap. They bury your old clothes in a really deep hole in the backyard. They wash your hair with five different shampoos.
Nothing works. The smell just keeps getting stronger!
"We have no choice," Nathan says finally. "We have to tell my parents what happened."
Nathan explains the whole thing to his parents.
"Ugh!" Mr. Hardman groans as he gets a whiff of you. ''We're going home."
So everyone crams into the front seat of the car. Everyone except you, They stick you in the back and drive home with the windows wide open.
They drop you off in front of your house — and speed away.
Your parents aren't home, so you drag yourself into the kitchen and scrounge around for something to eat.
Man, oh, man, you think as you bite into a piece of chocolate cake. This is the worst! You smell so bad, no one can 
stand
 to be around you!
How are you 
ever
 going to face the kids at school?
Find out on 
PAGE 46
.
128
The moss-man rows Benjie back to shore. You swim behind them.
When you get back on land, you find that half the town has turned out to find out who's been swimming in Poison Lake!
When the moss-man tells everyone what happened, the mayor of the town decides to rename the lake — after you!
"Wow," your mom says, giving you a hug. ''We must be the luckiest family in the world!"
"How come?" you ask.
''Well, we didn't want to tell you before," she says. "But your father and I bought five houses that face this lake — to turn into a vacation resort. When we got here — we thought we'd wasted our money. But now that the lake is all right, we'll be rich!"
"
Five
 houses?" you ask, laughing.
"Yes. Why?" your mother questions you.
"Our resort is going to be a big success," you tell your mom. "Because five is the absolute luckiest number ever!"
THE END
129
Nathan puffs out his cheeks, making a face like he's trying not to puke. "You smell like you did before — except lemony."
Tamika nods. "Yeah. You're still really gross." You hear a rustling in the trees. All three of you turn to look in the direction of the noise.
"We have to figure something out quick!" Nathan warns. "Because I think I just saw Bigfoot again!"
Your stomach jumps. You rush into the cabin and start pulling different things off the shelves in the kitchen, while Tamika and Nathan barricade the doors.
Vinegar. Ketchup. Baking soda. Lemon juice. Milk. A little chopped parsley — just for color. All of these things are used for taking smells out of stuff, you realize. One of them has to stop you from stinking. You grab a few other things you find in the freezer just for good measure.
"I'm going to take a bath in this stuff," you announce to your friends.
Tamika glances out a window. "Hurry! I just saw a really big shadow moving outside!"
Hop into the tub on 
PAGE 94
.
130
You open the door. Two guys in black suits and sunglasses are standing on Randy's doorstep.
"FBI," one of the guys announces. "I'm Agent Morrison. You kids called?"
"Yes," you say, babbling everything out quickly. "They were just here! The aliens. They squirted some horrible-tasting stuff in our mouths!"
"Uh-huh," Agent Morrison says, sounding bored. "You have any proof that you encountered these alien beings?"
"Yeah!" you realize. "I do! My finger lights up in the dark."
Agent Morrison rolls his eyes and snickers. "Another one claiming to have a glowing finger, eh, Art?" he says to his partner.
But the two of them do as you ask. They follow you into a dark closet.
"Okay, let's see that finger glow," Agent Morrison says.
You squint in the dark and see...
Nothing. No glowing finger. Nothing.
Turn to 
PAGE 93
.
131
Terrified, you dive into the murky water. Then you come up for air.
Yuck! The smell seems twice as bad now! You gag and nearly puke.
The wolf waits on the shore, pacing back and forth. -
At least 
it's
 smart enough to stay out of the water.
For the next forty minutes, you tread water, trying to stay as far away from the wolf as you can.
But finally you can't stand the smell any longer. And your arms and legs are tired. Dead-tired.
Exhausted, you swim to shore and climb out.
Go on, you think, watching the wolf. Attack me. I don't even 
care
 anymore.
Brace yourself for the wolf's attack on 
PAGE 24
.
132
You open your eyes slowly. How come you're lying on the ground?
Ben stands over you, gazing down. He looks terrified.
But the spaceship is gone. The sky is starry and clear.
''What happened?" you moan.
Ben trembles as he answers. "They came — the aliens came. I gave them the poison and told them it was a 
new
 ice cream. And they loved it. Even better than Crazy Cola ice cream! They ate it up. I gave them the recipe. and they left. Forever. Right after they cured you. But ..."
"But what?" you ask.
"Uhh — I think you ate JoJo," Ben says.
That's when you remember the horrible creature that came out of your mouth.
"Noooo," you moan, disgusted with yourself.
A moment later you feel as if you're going to throw up again.
Oh, no! The aliens must have lied! They haven't cured you! Now the monster is coming out again — to eat Ben!
Take a bite on 
PAGE 34
.
133
Owww! Your stomach is killing you. It twists so hard that you grab your side.
What's happening? you wonder in a panic.
Was that old woman wrong? Is Poison Lake really poisonous? Is the water ... killing you? Your stomach twists again. And growls.
Growls?
You burst out laughing. You're just hungry! You've been in the water a long time — and you never ate lunch!
You swim back to shore and walk, dripping, back to the cabin. You dry off and gobble down your sandwich and chocolate milk.
Then you hang around on land for a while, reading a book.
Man, you think, the temperature must be rising. I feel hotter and hotter every minute.
Your stomach churns.
Hey. What was that? You just ate. You can't be hungry again.
Suddenly, you feel something coming up out of your gut — rising in your throat like some kind of horrible creature!
What is it?
Quick! Let it out on 
PAGE 123
.
134
The horrible truth of your situation finally sinks in. You're an awful, smelly, hairy creature now.
Just another Bigfoot in the forest.
None of your friends would recognize you like this. And they probably wouldn't want to hang out with you, even if they could.
But being a monster could have some good points, you decide. You could definitely get a few laughs out of letting people catch glimpses of you — just to keep the mysterious legend of your existence alive.
You let Bigfoot lead you back into the cave. You lay down to take a nap.
Why not? You're going to need a lot of rest for scaring campers and tourists in
THE END.
135
Once it's out of your body, you can see it — a terrible, slime-covered, monstrous head!
You want to scream, but you can't — because it's still attached to you! Still partly 
inside
 you! Attached by a long, thin neck that reaches all the way from the monster's head down your throat and into your guts.
The head looks like a giant lizard. Its teeth are metallic. Its eyes are glowing red orbs. And its mouth is open — wide enough to swallow a grown man!
In a single, roaring, snarling movement, the beast from within you reaches out — and swallows JoJo!
Then the world goes black.
Wakeup on 
PAGE 132
.
OceanofPDF.com



