^ X,
)
W * mm , -Jmm
liV
<f
f

The voice on thephone
. . .
"I hate Call Waiting," Karen said. "It always
interrupts at the wrong time. Hold on a sec,
okay?"
"Okay," Ethan agreed.
More clicks. Then silence.
When Karen returned to Ethan a few sec-
onds later, her —voice was trembling and weak.
"Ethan, please comeover! Comeoverhere
right away!"
"Karen? What's wrong?" Ethan demanded.
"The voice onthe phone. It was sohorrible,
Ethan. He said he was going to kill me!"

Don't miss these other thrillers
by R.L. Stine:
The Baby-sitter
The Baby-sitterII
The Baby-sitterIII
The Boyfriend
The Girlfriend
The Dead Girlfriend
BlindDate
Halloween Night
Hit andRun
The Hitchhiker
Twisted
Beach House
The Snowman
BeachParty

R.LSTINE
SCHOLASTIC INC.
New York Toronto London Auckland Sydney

Ifyoupurchasedthisbookwithoutacover, youshouldbeawarethat
this book is stolen property. It was reported as "unsold and de-
stroyed" to the publisher, and neither the authornor the publisher
has receivedanypaymentforthis "stripped book."
Nopartofthispublicationmaybereproducedinwholeorinpart, or
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or other-
wise, without written permission ofthe publisher. For information
regardingpermission, write to Scholastic Inc., 555 Broadway, New
York 10012.
ISBN 0-590-47480-4
Copyright© 1994byRobertL. Stine. Allrightsreserved. Published
by Scholastic Inc. —
12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 4 5 6 7 8 9/9
Printedin the U.S.A. 01
FirstScholasticprinting, February 1994

Chapter 1
The frightening phone calls began less than an
hour after Karen had the fight with Ethan.
One week before the fight, on a snowy,
bone-chilling Saturday night, Karen Masters
pulled her blue Corolla ontoJefferson, Ethan's
street. The tires crunched over the salted
pavement as Karen eased to the curb and cut
the headlights.
She reached to turn the ignition key, but
her friend Micah Davis grabbed her arm to
stop her. "Karen, if you turn off the engine,
we won't have any heat. Well freeze."
Karen stared thoughtfully out the wind-
shield, past the clicking wipers at the falling
snow. "I know," she said. "But I'm nearly out
of gas. If we have to wait a long time ..."
Micah unlatched the seat belt so she could
turn to Karen. "This is so crazy. I don't know

2 R.L. Stine
what you hope to see," she said, shaking her
head.
In the shadowy light, Karen caught Micah's
disapproving frown. The wipers scraped
across the windshield. The snowflakes were
large and wet. Before they were brushed
away, thelightfromthe streetlampmadethem
glisten like teardrops.
"I don't know, either," Karen sighed, rest-
ing both gloved hands on the wheel.
"It's a rotten night for spying," Micah com-
plained in a velvety voice. She tossed her
blonde hair behind her shoulders. Then she
ducked her head lower into the collar of her
down coat. "I mean it. This is really crazy,
Karen."
"I know," Karen agreed. "Ijusthave to see
..." Her voice trailed off.
"See what?" Micah demanded.
"I have to see if Ethan lied to me," Karen
said. She turned off the engine. The wipers
stopped halfway across their route, then slid
into place."Good. Silence. I can't stand that
click-click-click\" she exclaimed.
"You're a nervous nut," Micah accused.
"You've been a nervous nut for days."
"It's all Ethan's fault," Karen insisted. Her
dark eyes stared straight ahead. She had
parked at the top of the low, sloping hill that

CallWaiting
led down to Ethan Parker's house.
From this spot, she could see the Parkers'
sprawling redwood ranch-style house and the
short driveway that led to the garage at the
A
side. spotlight over the front door cast a
brightrectangleoflightoverthesnow-covered
front lawn.
"Lookat you," Micahsaidsharply, grabbing
the sleeve of Karen's bulky sweater. "You're
so pale, Karen. And you look positively
anorexic."
"It's dark. How can you see if I'm pale or
not?" Karenreplied shrilly, tuggingher sleeve
free. "And I'm not anorexic. Everyone in my
family is very thin."
She pulled off her wool ski cap and shook
her short, dark hair free. And then she added
pointedly, "Especially since we don't gobble
down Kit Kat bars every minute."
Micah had a serious Kit Kat problem.
"Wish Ihadonenow,"Micahmuttered. She
gazed out at the falling snow. "I can't believe
I agreed to come with you tonight!" she
exclaimed.
Micahpushedherhairbackwithbothhands.
She had piles ofcurlyblondehair, and she was
constantlyplayingwithit, pushingatit, tugging
at strands, twirling them around her fingers.
She shivered. "What do you think we're

4 R.L. Stine
—
going to see, Karen before they find us
frozen solid inside this car?"
"Ethan broke our date tonight," Karen re-
plied, her voice revealing her emotion. She
crossedher arms infrontofher chest. "Iwant
to see if he lied tome. I want to see whattime
he gets home."
"What's that going to prove?" Micah de-
manded. "If he gets home after midnight, is
that going to prove he was out with Wendy
Talbot?"
Karen started to reply, but the windshield
suddenly glowedbrightly. Headlights frombe-
hind them. An approaching car.
"Maybe that's him!" Karen whispered.
Both girls slid down low in their seats.
The brightlights rolled over the windshield.
The car, a dark Taurus wagon, rumbled past
them and kept going, moving slowly over the
snow-slick street.
"False alarm," Karen said. She glanced at
thedashboardclock, butit wasablankbecause
the engine was off.
Micah sat up andtapped herlongfingernails
on the door. "Youknow, just because you saw
him talking to Wendy in the hall after school
doesn't mean they have a date or anything."
"I told you," Karen replied sharply. "It was
the way he was talking to her. He was leaning

CallWaiting 5
over her. And when they laughed, she put her
hand on his shoulder. Like she owned him or
something.—"
"Karen really!"
"Okay, okay," Karen muttered. "Not like
she ownedhim. But she was definitelycoming
on to him. And he was loving it."
"So? Wendy is a flirt," Micah said, shrug-
ging. "Everyone knows that. What does that
prove?"
"Why are you defending her?" Karen de-
manded.
She immediately thought: Of course Micah
would defend Wendy. Micah is a flirt, too.
Micah is always coming on to boys, putting
her hand on their arm as they talk. Micah al-
ways stands really close to boys, so close it
makes them uncomfortable. And she's always
purring at them with that sexy voice she has.
Micah is just like Wendy, Karen thought.
And then she scolded herself for thinking
such cruel thoughts. Micah is my best friend,
after all, Karen reminded herself. Micah is al-
ways there for me. She's here for me right
now.
"I'm not defending Wendy," Micah insisted
patiently. "I'mjust trying to prove to you that
you're crazy!" She laughed. "Imean, whatare
friends for?"

6 R.L. Stine
Karen didn'tjoinin the laughter. "Don'tyou
understand, Micah? This is the first Saturday
that Ethan — and I haven't been together."
"
"Karen
"The same day I saw him drooling all over
Wendy Talbot in school, he called me and said
he had to work the late shift at the Sizzler and
couldn'tseemeSaturdaynight. Am
I
supposed
to believe that?"
"Yes," Micah replied quickly. "Listen,
Karen, you've got to stop acting so jealous.
Really." —
"If Ethan broke up with me " Karen
started. But the words caught in her throat.
She couldn't bear to think about it.
"Oh, it's so coldinhere!" Micahcomplained
with a loud groan. "Feel my nose. Go ahead.
Feel it. It's totally frozen, Karen."
"Ican'tfeelyournose. I'mwearinggloves,"
Karen told her.
"Ethan isn't going to break up with you to
start going with Wendy Talbot," Micah —as-
"
sured her. "But even if he does, Karen
She grabbedKaren'ssleeve. "Even if he does,
itisn'ttheendoftheworld, youknow? Imean,
really. There are lot—s ofother guys. You can't
go totally to pieces even if Ethan is inter-
ested in someone else."
Karen's dark eyes flashed. "You know

CallWaiting
—
something don't you!" she accused shrilly,
"You know something about Ethan and
Wendy, and you're not telling me!"
"No way!" Micah cried, "No way. I don't
knowanything. Fm justtryingtohelpyou. You
know. Fm trying to give you a reality check,
Karen. You're pretty. You're smart. Even
if Ethan — dumps you, you won't have any
"
trouble
"Stop it!" Karen snapped, her voice trem-
bling. "I don't want to talk about it."
Micahloweredhereyes andfiddledwiththe
charm bracelet on her wrist. "Sorry," she
murmured.
Fm
"No, sorry," Karen replied quickly.
"You're right, Micah. Fm a nervous nut. I
didn'tmeantosnapatyou. You'reatruefriend
for coming along with me tonight. Really."
Micah traced her finger along the clouded-
up passenger window. "Well, I just don't get
it," she said softly. "Imean, if youthink Ethan
is out with Wendy, why aren't we parked in
front of Wendy's house?"
"I don't want to see them together," Karen
replied. "I really don't. Ijust want to see what
time Ethan gets home."
Micah rubbed her hand in a wide circle on
the passengerwindow, tryingto make apeep-
hole. "We can't see anythingnow!" she com-

8 R.L. Stine
plained. "Thewindowsarecoveredwithsnow,
Karen. It's like being inside an igloo."
Karen only heard part of what her friend
was saying. She had drifted into her unhappy
thoughts. Once again, she pictured Ethan
parked somewhere with Wendy. She pictured
his arm around Wendy. She imagined them
snuggling close, kissing, while the snow
floated down over Ethan's car.
"You didn't hear a word I said," Micah ac-
cused, tapping Karen several—times on the
shoulder ofher sweater. "Hey snap out of
it."
"Oh. Sorry." Karen glanced around. "I'd
better scrape the windshield. I didn't realize."
She popped the trunk, pushed open the car
door, pulled on her wool cap, and was im-
mediately greeted by a blast of cold air and
wet snowflakes. "I have a scraper in the
trunk," she told Micah.
"Closethedoor!"Micahscreamed. "Itmust
be twenty below!"
Karen started toward the trunk, her boots
crunching over the soft snow that blanketed
the street.
The wet snowflakes tickled her face.
Soft as a kiss, she thought dreamily.
Ethan, where are you?
Leaning against the trunk, she gazed down

Call Waiting
the hill to his house. The bright spotlight on
the front ofthe house caught the falling snow,
making the flakes white againt the low, purple
sky. The slanted roof was blanketed with
snow. The windows were all dark.
Sighing, Karen pulled up the trunk lid.
As the tiny trunk light came on, the boy's
body came slowly into view.
The body was folded neatly in the trunk,
the arms tucked underneath.
From out of the deep shadows, the boy's
lifeless eyes stared up at Karen.
Karen opened her mouth to scream, but no
sound came out.

Chapter 2
A low, terrified moan escaped Karen's
throat.
In the dim light, the body in the trunk ap-
peared to shift.
Or was t—hat her imagination?
"Micah help me!" Her cry came out a
whisper, blown back in her face by a wet gust
of wind.
And then Karen recognized the body.
A dummy. A mannequin.
The dumb department store mannequinher
brother, Chris, had found years ago in a trash
dump and had carrried home to keep in his
room.
Karen uttered an angry cry. She grabbed
the plastic scraper and slammed the trunk lid
shut, bouncing the car.
Chris and his stupid practical jokes!
He knew the mannequin would scare her to
10

CallWaiting 11
death. Especially in the stressed-out state
she'd been in.
Why did Chris think it was such a riot to
frighten her?
He was older, bigger, smarter. He was al-
ready in college. He had a million friends and
lots ofgirlfriends. So why didhe have to prove
howsuperiorhewaswithallthedumbpractical
jokes he was always pulling?
Til pay him back, Karen thought. I'll find a
way to get him.
She slipped as she headed toward the wind-
shield. Herfeetstartedto slide outfromunder
her, and she stumbled forward onto the hood
of the car.
Pushing herself up with both hands, she
quickly brushed the wet snow off the front of
her 'sweater. Then she began scraping the
windshield.
She felt cold droplets of snow in her hair
thatpokedoutfromunderthewoolcap. Snow-
flakes clungtohereyelashes, makingherblink
as she worked to clear the windshield. Even
three layers ofsweaters couldn't keep out the
cold.
Micah is right. This really is crazy, Karen
thought.
We
should have rented a movie and stayed
in the nice, warm house.

12 R.L. Stine
ButIcouldn't, Karenrealized. Icouldn'tjust
sit home thinking Ethan had lied to me, won-
dering— where he was, wondering what he was
doing and with whom.
As she scraped the passenger side, Micah
came into view. She was huddled low on the
seat, staring out questioningly at Karen, her
head buried in her coat collar, her hands
shoved into her coat pockets.
I really took Ethan for granted, Karen
thought, up until tonight. I guess I didn't re-
alize howmuchhe means to me untilnow. My
life was really empty until Ethan and I started
going together last year.
KarenandMicahhadonlybeenfriendssince
the start of the school year. Before Ethan,
Karen had spent a lot oflonely time. Her par-
ents had had an angry divorce three years
before. Karen's father had left home without
even saying good-bye to her.
Karen had always had an intense person-
ality. She took things seriously. She was al-
ways trying to figure out what people really
meant by the things they said or did.
Hermotherseemedtotake thedivorcebet-
ter than Karen did. Karen had received only
two letters from her father in three years.
Now the housewas emptymostofthe time.
Mrs. Masters had to work long hours at the

CallWaiting 13
department store where she was a floor man-
ager. And Karen's big brother, Chris, was al-
ways busy with his college friends.
Ethanhad saved Karenfromherloneliness.
He was good for her. He was funny and
outgoing and playful. He knew how to have
fun. He kept her from getting too serious, too
intense.
They took long bike rides along the river.
They loved to ride to the high peak that over-
looked town and gaze down at the tiny houses
and shops below them.
They both loved trivia games. They played
TrivialPursuituntilthe cards wereraggedand
bent. Karen taught Ethan chess. They both
enjoyed quiet, rainy evenings, staring at each
other over the chessboard.
So many good times they had shared.
They had become so close, so close.
. . .
But tonight he had dumped her for Wendy
Talbot.
Karen knew he had. She just knew it.
And here she was, in the middle ofa snow-
storm, p — arked on the hill above his house,
waiting waiting for what?
Suddenly, the driver's window slid down,
startling Karen from her thoughts. Micah,
leaning over the seat, poked her head out.

14 R.L. Stine
—
"Hey you don't have to scrape off the
glass!"
"Oh. Yeah. Right." Karen hadn't realized
the windshield was nearly cleared.
"Get in!" Micah called.
Karen obediently climbed in behind the
wheel, quickly pulling the door shut. She
dropped the scraper onto the floor beside Mi-
cah. "Ooh. I can't stop shivering," she said,
brushing snow off her wool cap. "I ha — ve to
turn on the heat. If we run out of gas "
"I have an idea," Micah interrupted. "Let's
drive to the Sizzler."
"Huh?" Karen hugged herself, trying to
warm up. She was breathing hard, and her
breath was steaming up the windshield.
"Drive to the Sizzler," Micah repeated. "If
you see thatEthanishardatworkthere, you'll
feel better. Then we'll go to my house and
make a—fire, an — d try to warm up."
"But but " Karenhesitated, hermind
spinning. "What if Ethan sees me? He'll know
I was spying on him. Or . . . what if he isn't
there, Micah? R—eally. I couldn't stand it if he
"
wasn't there. I
"Karen, do you want to know the truth or
not?" Micah demanded.
Karen couldn't reply. She wasn't sure what
she wanted to know. "Maybe we should just

CallWaiting 15
go home," she muttered unhappily.
Micah started to reply, but bright lights
against the windshield made her stop.
Both girls ducked low as white headlights
A
shone through the car. car roared past,
speedingoverthe snow-covered street, down
the hill.
Atthebottomofthehill, itsbrakelightswent
on, and the car slid wildly, spun all the way
around, then swerved into the Parkers' drive-
way. "It's him," Karen murmured, immedi-
ately recognizing Ethan's red Bonneville.
"Does he always drive like that?" Micahde-
manded, rolling her eyes.
"Ssshhh," Karen whispered. Through the
snow-dotted windshield, she could see Ethan
climb out ofhis car andjog through the bright
rectangle of light to his front door.
"Can we go now?" Micah whispered. "You
saw him. You didn't prove anything. But you
saw him."
"What time is it?" Karen demanded, her
dark eyes peering down the hill. Ethan had
disappeared into the house, but she kept star-
ing at the front stoop anyway.
"It's too dark. I can't see my watch," Micah
replied, holdingherwatchupclosetoherface.
Karen flicked on the overhead light.
'It's eleven-twenty," Micah told her.

16 R.L. Stine
"I knew it!" Karen criedunhappily. "He was
out with Wendy!"
"Huh? How do you know?" Micah asked.
"The late shift at the Sizzler doesn't end
until twelve. He shouldn't be home until
twelve-twenty at the earliest."
"Karen!" Micah exclaimed. "You mean you
were going to keep us sitting here another
hour? I don't believe you! I really don't!"
Karen didn't reply. Her gloved hand trem-
bled as she turned the ignition. The Corolla
started right up. She jammed it into gear and
slammed h — er foot down on the gas.
"Karen not so fast! It's slippery!" Micah
cried shrilly.
Karen ignored her and lowered her foot on
the pedal. The tires spun as the car zigzagged
down the hill.
Karen kept her eyes narrowed straight
ahead as they sped past Ethan's house. She
turned the wheel hard to pull out of a skid,
then made —a sharp right.
"Karen slow down! I mean it!"
I don't feel cold anymore, Karen realized. I
stopped shivering.
I'm too angry to feel cold. I feel only anger.
Anger a — nd hurt.
"Karen what is wrongwith you?" Micah
shrieked.

CallWaiting 17
The white light appeared without warning.
Twinheadlights invadingthe car, momentarily
blinding Karen.
She gasped and raised a gloved hand to
shield her eyes.
The headlights grewbrighteras the oncom-
ing car roared closer.
"Slow down!"
Karen pumped the brake, but her car went
into a skid, sliding toward the center of the
street.
Hercarslidsideways. Karenfranticallyspun
the wheel, trying to straighten the car out.
Out ofcontrol. Tm out ofcontrol.
The white lightrolledoverherlike anocean
wave.
—
"I can't see!"
The crunch of metal and glass nearly
drowned out her scream.

Chapter 3
Karen and Micah were both screaming as the
car slid crazily over the street.
Karen's foot pressed the brake down as far
as it would go.
Both girls werejoltedforward, then sharply
back.
The bright headlights vanished from the
windshield, casting them in darkness.
The car made a half-spin and stopped at the
snowbanked curb.
"Out ofcontrol," Karen murmured. "Out of
control."
"Are you okay?" Micah askedinatrembling
voice.
"Yeah, I guess," Kare — n managed to reply.
"
"But —the crash. I — heard
"I I thought " Micah stammered. She
tugged at the sides ofherhair with bothhands
as if holding on for dear life.
18

CallWaiting 19
Karen staredblanklyatthe darkwindshield.
"Did we crash? Is the car wrecked?"
Without waiting for an answer, she pushed
open her door and took deep breaths of the
cold air. "Oh. Look."
She pointedacrossthe snowystreet. Micah
leaned over to follow her friend's gaze.
The other car had collided with a telephone
pole.
The crash ofmetal. The shatteringglass. It
had come from the other car.
We're okay, Karen thought gratefully.
We're perfectly okay.
But an inner voice kept her from rejoicing.
You wanted to crash, the inner voice accused.
You were so upset about Ethan, you wanted
to crash.
Forcingawaythosethoughts, shewondered
if the driver in the other car was okay.
She watched a large man climb out of the
car. His boots crunched over the snow as he
lumbered toward Karen. "Are you all right?"
he called, shouting over the swirling wind.
Karenstartedto climb out, butthe seatbelt
held— her back. "Yeah. We're okay. Your
"
car
"Headlight is smashed, that's all." The man
stopped afew feet from Karen. He was wear-
ing an enormous coat of some kind of shaggy

20 R.L. Stine
fur. It made him look like a bear. Snowflakes
clung to his glasses. "Sure you're okay?"
We
"Yeah. didn't hit anything. Jus—t slid,"
"
Karen replied, shivering. "I'm sorry
"Notreally yourfault," theman said. "Iwas
going too fast." He motioned for her to close
the door. "You can just leave. Til get home
okay. It's only a couple of blocks."
Karen watched the man walk back to his
car, the big fur coat ballooning in the wind.
Then she slammed her door shut and slowly
backed the car from the curb.
"You want me to drive?" Micah asked.
KarencouldfeelMicah'seyesonher, study-
ing her.
Tm
okay," Karen told her. "I'll go slow.
Promise." Karen eased the car through a stop
sign and made a careful left turn.
"This was a fun night," Micah muttered
sarcastically.
"It's all Ethan's fault," Karen replied, sur-
prised at her own bitterness.
"Huh?"
"It's all Ethan's fault," Karenrepeated. "He
can't do this to me!"
"Do you wantto talk aboutthis?" Micah
. . .
asked, her expression tight with concern.
"No. I don't think so," Karenreplied softly,

Call Waiting 21
her eyes straight ahead on the snow-covered
road-
Karen dropped Micah at her house, then
hurriedhome. The snowwas turningtofrozen
sleet as she parked the car in the driveway
and let herself in through the kitchen door.
The back of the house was dark. She
stoppedinside the doorwaytopulloffherwool
cap and boots. Leaving them near the door,
she brushed the cold snow from the front of
her short, dark hair with one hand.
Then, with a shiver, she made her way to
the front stairs. Her mother's bedroom door
Mom
wasclosed. musthavegonetobedearly,
Karen decided.
Upstairs, Chris's door was closed, too. She
couldhearvoicesfromthe TV inthere. Laugh-
ter. Probably Saturday NightLive.
Chrislovedcomedyshows. Sometimeshe'd
laugh till he had tears in his eyes and couldn't
breathe, and Karen wouldjust be sitting there
blankly, wondering what he found so funny.
As she passed his bedroom, she suddenly
remembered the mannequin stuffed in her
trunk. What a dumb joke. She had an impulse
to throw openhis door and tellhimhow stupid
he was.
Chris was on his winter break from school.

22 R.L. Stine
That meant he had a lot of time on his hands.
Karen wasn't sure she could take two more
weeks of his awful practical jokes.
She hesitated, shivering, herhands andfeet
nearly numb with cold. Should she go in and
getonhis case? IthinkI'dratherjustgetunder
the covers and warm up, she decided.
The sound of audience laughter on the TV
followedher down the hall. It was warm inher
room. Heat poured up from the floorregister.
Sleetpatteredhardagainstthewindow. Karen
hurried to pull the curtains.
Shechangedquicklyintoalongflannelnight-
shirt, tossing her sweaters and black leggings
onto the chair beside her desk.
I'm never going to get warm, she thought,
still shivering. Never.
She pulled back the quilt on top of her bed
andwas about to climb underthe covers when
the phone rang.
Startled, she jumped at the sound. And
glanced at the clock radio beside herbed. Ten
after twelve.
Who would call this late? she wondered.
She picked up the receiver midway through
the second ring.
"Hello? Micah?"
"No," rasped a deep voice. "This is your
worst nightmare calling."

Chapter 4
"Huh?" Karen gripped the receiver tightly in
her cold hand. "Who is this?"
'Tourworstnightmare," the deep voice re-
peated menacingly.
Karenlaughed. "Oh. Hi! How are you?" she
cried.
"Okay," —the voice replied uncertainly.
"Adam is your family all moved in? Are
you in your new house?" Karen asked, car-
rying the phone over to the bed and tucking
her cold feet under her as she sat on top of
the quilt.
'Teah. We're here," her cousin replied. "I
can't believe we're back in Thompson Falls."
"I can't believe it, either," Karen said
brightly. "Just lik—e when we were kids. Mom
and Dad used to "
"Have you heard from your dad lately?"
Adam
interrupted.
23

24 R.L. Stine
"No. He doesn't write," Karen muttered,
then quickly changed the subject. "So, how is
everything, Adam? Do you like the new
house?"
"I don't know," Adam replied. "It makes
funny noises. Like groaning and moaning
sounds. It's probably haunted. Or it was built
on an Indian burial ground or something, and
we're allgoingtobe slaughteredinour sleep."
Karen snickered. "You're as cheerful as
ever, Adam," she said sarcastically.
"Thanks. How's Chris? How does he like
college?"
"You know Chris," Karen replied. "He's
fine. He's always fine. He breezes right
through everything."
.
"You stillgoingwiththatlong-hairedfreak?"
Adam demanded.
Karen felt her face grow hot. She had mo-
mentarily forgotten how upset and angry she
was at Ethan. "You mean Ethan? He isn't a
long-haired freak," she said defensively.—"Just
"
because he has long hair doesn't mean
"Isn't he a little too good-looking for you?"
Adam
teased.
Karen didn't reply. She wasn't in the mood
for her cousin's kidding around. And she es-
pecially wasn't in any mood for jokes about
Ethan.

CallWaiting 25
She and Adam were nearly the same age.
They were both seniors. They had grown up
together and had been fairly close, even
though, they didn't have much in common.
Theywould studytogether andgo to the mov-
ies when there was nothing better to do.
Then Adam and his family had moved away
from Thompson Falls.
"Adam, it's really late," she said.
"Midnightislate?" Adamlaughedscornfully.
Then his tone suddenly changed. "Can you do
me a favor, Karen?"
"Sure. What?"
"Monday will be my first day at school. I
hate coming into a new school in the middle
of the year. I mean, I won't know where any-
thing is. I won't even be able to find the boys'
room. Do you think if I get there early you
could give me a quick tour Monday morning?"
"Sure. No problem," Karen replied. "Meet
me a little after eight, okay? Just inside the
front door."
"Hey, that's great," Adam told her. He
sounded truly grateful.
Adam always was shy, Karenremembered.
Moving to a new high school as a senior prob-
ablyhas himreally stressed out. "I'llintroduce
you to some kids, too," Karen promised. "I
want you to meet my friend Micah."

26 R.L. Stine
"Yeah. Okay. Everyone's probably forgot-
ten me," Adam said with a trace of sadness.
"I've been away so many years. Since sixth
grade ."
. .
He was always kind ofa strange guy, Karen
remembered. He never had many friends.
"See you Monday morning/' she told him,
yawning.
"Right. And thanks again, Karen. See you
Monday morning." He clicked off.
Karen carried the phone back to her desk,
thenwearilyclimbedintobed. Yawningloudly,
she forced herself not to think about Ethan.
Ethan and Wendy. Ethan and Wendy.
Withtheirfaces floatinginhermind, she fell
into a dreamless sleep.
She slept late on Sunday morning. It was a
little aftereleveno'clockwhen she came down
for breakfast, dressed in gray sweats.
Chris was at the kitchen table, his back to
Karen, starting his breakfast. He wore a ma-
roon sweatshirt over faded jeans. Mrs. Mas-
ters was bent over the dishwasher, loading
some dirty plates.
"Morning," Karen muttered. "You slept
late, too," she said to her brother.
— "Ohhh! My eye!" he cried. "My eye! It's
running!"

CallWaiting 27
He whipped around to face her. He had
placed an entire fried egg over his eye.
Karenlaughed. Shehatedtoencouragehim,
but it looked really funny. "You're sick," she
told him. She slapped his shoulderreally hard,
making the egg fall into his lap.
"Chris, grow up," Mrs. Masters said
sharply, her hands on her slender hips, a dis-
approving frown on her face. "I mean, really!
How can you be nineteen years old and still
be putting fried eggs on your face?"
"Easy," Chris replied, winkingatKaren. He
lifted the egg off his lap with one hand and
plopped it back on the plate. "Want my egg?"
he asked Karen. "Only slightly used."
"Youwanteggs, Karen?"hermotherasked,
closing the dishwasher.
"Um . . .no. Think I'll just make a Pop-
Tart or something," Karen said.
"A Pop-Tart? Since when are you such a
health nut?" Chris joked.
"Well, I'm going to run to the mall," Mrs.
Masters said, drying her hands. She looked
like she could be Karen's older sister. They
hadthe samepale, delicateskin, the samedark
browneyes andbrownhair, the same slender,
almost frail, figures. "Sunday is my only day
to do any shopping."

28 R.L. Stine
"Poor Mom." Chris grinned at her. He had
yellow egg on his teeth.
"Don't make fun of me," Mrs. Masters
scolded, giving the back of his head a playful
slap as she passed the table.
Chris rubbed his head. "Hey! Sometimes I
get tired of making fun of Karen, you know?"
He turned to Karen. "Have you seen my
dummy anywhere?"
"Oh, shut up, Chris!" Karen cried angrily.
"You scared me to death with that thing last
night!"
Chris laughed gleefully. "The body in the
trunk!" he cried in his imitation of an eerie
monster voice.
"You're not funny. Really. You're just a
pain," Karen told him.
She ate her breakfast standing at the sink.
Two strawberry-filled Pop-Tarts and a glass
of cranberry juice. Then she settled down on
the couch in the den, her father's old study,
to call Micah.
They talked a little bit about the night be-
fore. Then Karen told her about her cousin
Adam. "He moved into an old house on Mon-
roe," shetoldMicah. "Yeah.Justthree orfour
blocks from here. Isn't that weird? He hasn't
livedinThompsonFallssincesixthgrade. He's
starting school on Monday."

CallWaiting 29
"Ooh, he's so weird!" Micah exclaimed.
Then she quickly caught herself. "No offense,
Karen. I mean, I know Adam is your cousin.
But he's definitely weird."
"He'snotweird," Kareninsisted. "He'sjust
shy. He's terribly shy, Micah."
Micahwassilentforamoment. "DoesAdam
still spend allhis time readingthose old horror
comics and watching old horror movies?" she
asked.
"I don't know," Karen told her. "I haven't
seen him for ages. I know he used to collect
all kinds ofhorror stuff. He was always really
intoit. Remember that creepyHalloweencos-
tume he made for himself when we were in
fifthgrade? Theonewiththegreenslimepour-
ing out of his nose and mouth?"
"I always thought he was kind of creepy,"
Micah confessed. "But he's probably
changed."
"I want you to be nice to him," Karen in-
structed, twisting the phone cord around her
slender wrist. "He doesn't know anyone. Can
you imagine? It's your senior year and you
have to leave allyourfriends behind andmove
to a new place?"
"Istillthinkhe'sweird,"Micahreplied. "But
I'll try to be friendly. You know. Give him a
break. Maybe he's gotten cute."

30 R.L. Stine
Karen suddenly heard a loud ringing sound.
"What on earth is that?" she asked.
Micah let out a groan. "It's these hideous
chimes my father bought. They go off every
hour. They're really gross, buthe loves them.
Guess it must be twelve o'clock."
She shoutedsomethingtohermother. Then
she returned her attention to Karen. "Have
you heard from Ethan?"
Karen unwrapped the phone cord from her
wrist. She had been lying over the arm of the
couch. She sat up. "No. Not yet. You know
Ethan. He'll probably sleep till noon."
"You're feeling better? I mean, about
things?" Micah demanded.
"Yeah. Iguess," Karentoldher. "Yes. I do.
Really."
She wasn't sure how she felt. She had been
doing her best to shut Ethan out of her
thoughts.
"I was really worried about you last—night,
Karen," Micahsaidwithconcern. "You you
really weren't acting like y—ourself. The whole
idea of spying on Ethan it w — as s — o crazy.
"
And then the way you drove. I I
"I'mfeelingalotbetteraboutthings,"Karen
said. "You don't have to worry. I was thinking
about it last night, before I fell asleep. You
know what I decided, Micah?"

CallWaiting 31
"What?"
"I decided that Ethan cares too much about
me. He wouldn't go out with Wendy Talbot. I
don't know what I was thinkingof. But I know
I'm right. I know how much Ethan and I mean
to each other. And I know Ethan would never
do that to me."
Karen glanced toward the doorway and
cried out in surprise.
Ethan took a reluctant step into the room,
a troubled expression on his face.
How longhashebeenlistening? Karenwon-
dered. She still held the phone to her ear.
"Ethan, what are you doinghere?" she asked,
unable to hide her surprise.
He lowered his eyes, avoiding her stare.
"Uh . . . Karen . . . we've got to talk."

Chapter 5
"Micah, 111 call you later," Karen said, staring
hard at Ethan. She hung up the phone and
climbed to her feet. "Ethan, hi."
"Hi." He shambled over to the couch, still
avoiding her eyes.
He tossed down his jacket, then shoved his
hands into the pockets of his baggy, faded
jeans. He wore an oversized, pale blue V-
neckedsweateroverawhiteT-shirt. Hislong,
black hair fell over his shoulders. He had a
slender silver ring through one earlobe.
"Chris let me in," he explained uncomfort-
ably. He dropped down onto the big armchair
across from the couch.
Karen lowered herselfback onto the couch.
She sat tensely on the cushion edge. "Where
were you last night? I called you," she lied.
"I told you," he replied sharply. "I had to
work. You know Ernie, that new busboy they
32

CallWaiting 33
hired? He called in sick. So I had to take his
shift." He ran a hand back through his long
hair. "I didn't get home till after eleven."
"Eleven? I thought the shift ended at
twelve," Karen said, trying to sound casual
but not quite pulling it off. She fiddled tensely
with the sleeves of her gray sweatshirt.
"Therestaurantwasempty,"Ethanreplied.
"Because of the snow. So they let me go
home." He sighed. "Wish I could quitthatjob.
But with my dad laid off . . . you know how it
is."
She nodded, studying the troubled expres-
sion on his face.
He's so good-looking, she thought. With
those soulful, darkeyes. Thatbroadforehead.
I wish he'd smile. I love his smile so much.
Why is he here? Karen asked herself. Why
does he look so upset? That isn't like him at
all. What does he want to talk about?
Do I want to know? Maybe I don't want to
hear
it.
A
heavy feeling of dread rose up from her
stomach. She could feel her neck muscles
tightening. Whenever she felt stressed out,
she immediately got a stiff neck.
"What did you want to talk about?" she
asked softly.

34 R.L. Stine
Ethan hesitated. He slowly raised his eyes
to hers. "Well ."
. .
The doorbell rang.
Ethan let out a nervous laugh.
Karen waited to see if Chris was going to
answer
it.
When she didn'thearanyfootsteps,
she hurried to the front door.
She pulled the door open. "Oh. Hi."
"How's it going, Karen?" Jake asked. She
stepped aside so he could come in. Jake was
Ethan's best friend. He was a tall, wiry, red-
haired boy with long, gangly arms. He always
reminded Karen of a grasshopper.
Ethan appeared in the front entranceway
behind Karen. "Hey, there you are," Jake
called to him. Jake had a funny, hoarse voice.
A lot of kids called him Frog because of it.
"I've been trying to track you down, man,"
Jake told Ethan. "Your mom said you might
be here."
"Jake, what's your problem?" Ethan asked,
a startled expression on his face.
Jake pulledaworn, blackleatherwalletfrom
his coat pocket. "Here, man. This is yours.
You left it at my house last night."
Karencouldn'tholdherselfback. Sheturned
angrily to Ethan. "Huh? You were at Jake's
last night?" she demanded shrilly.

Call Waiting 35
Ethan's face turned bright scarlet. "No
. . .
uh..."
Jake held the wallet out to him.
Ethangrabbed it andjammed itintohis back
jeans pocket. He was stillblushing. Karen saw
him flash an angry glance at Jake.
What was Ethan doing at Jake's last night?
Karen wondered. Why would he break a date
with me and make up a lie about having to
work just to go over to Jake's?
"I went over to Jake's on my way to
. . .
the Sizzler," Ethansaidfinally. Hisface turned
even brighter red.
Jake nodded, unconvincingly.
Ethan is such a terrible liar, Karen thought
miserably.
Why is he lying to me? He never lied to me
before!
She took a deep breath. She decided she
had to get the truth out of him.
"Hey, guys!" A voice interrupted from the
top of the stairs.
Chris hunched down so they could see him.
"How's itgoing?"Leaningagainstthebanister,
he came halfway down the stairs.
Ethan andJake greeted Chris warmly.
Ethan seems real glad for the interruption,
Karen thought unhappily.
"Hey, come upstairs," Chris urged, a dev-

36 R.L. Stine
ilish grin spreading across his face. "You can
all listen in on this call I'm going to make. I'm
calling this girl I met."
"Huh? You want us to listen in?" Jake de-
manded, confused. —
"What are you going to do call her up
and make loud breathing sounds?" Karen
asked, making a disgusted face. "That's your
usual speed."
Chris looked hurt. "Hey, I wouldn't do
that." He motioned for them to follow him,
then started back up the stairs. "You'll see.
It's going to be really funny. Come on. But
don't laugh, okay? Don't let her hear you."
Ethan was the first one on the stairs. He
hurried up after Chris, taking the stairs two
at a time.
He's desperate to getawayfromme, Karen
realized. He's been caught in a lie, and now
he's so glad that my stupid brother got him
out of trouble.
Jake started up the stairs after Ethan. He
turnedbacktoKaren. "Youcoming?"hecalled
in his hoarse, raspy voice.
my
"I can't stand brother's practicaljokes,"
Karen told him, sighing. "But I guess I'll
come."
Chris was already dialing the phone when
Karen steppedinto his room. Leaningoverhis

Call Waiting 37
desk, his sandyhairfallingoverhis eyes, Chris
grinned at her with the receiver to his ear.
Ethan dropped onto the edge of Chris's un-
made bed.Jake leanedagainstthe closetdoor.
Karen stayed in the doorway, her eyes on
Ethan.
These phone pranks Chris is always pulling
are so dumb, Karen thought, frowning. Why
does he think they're such a riot?
"Hello, is this Sara Martin?" Chris asked,
disguisinghisvoice, making itdeeper. Hisdev-
ilish grin grew wider. "This is David Reston,
your world literature instructor."
Jake let out a high-pitched giggle. Chris
raised a finger to his lips, motioning for him
to be silent.
"I'm glad you're enjoying the class, Sara,"
Chris said, keeping his voice as low as he
could. "But I'm afraid I'm calling with some
bad news."
Chris paused, listening to the girl's sur-
prised reaction.
"Well, I'm afraid I caught you," Chris con-
tinued in his deep voice. "I know that you
plagiarized your term report."
Jake slapped his forehead. He was strug-
gling to keep from laughing out loud. Ethan
had a big grin on his face.
I don't think this is funny, Karen thought,

38 R.L. Stine
standing stiffly in the doorway, her arms
crossed over her chest. It's mean- Chris can
be really mean.
"I'm sorry, Sara," Chris continued. "But I
know where you copiedyourreportfrom. You
didn't really think you could get away with it,
did you?"
That poor girl, Karen thought. She must be
so upset.
"There's no point in denying it," Chris was
tellingthe girl. "I knowyou copiedyourreport
from that genius in the class, Chris Masters."
"Oh, brother," Karen said aloud, rollingher
eyes.
Chris burst out in laughter. "Yeah. —It's me.
Hi, Sara. You believedit was Reston didn't
you!"
Everyone in the room was laughing wildly.
Everyone except Karen. Sara should hang up
on him, she thought. Why is she being such a
good sport?
Chris was waving his hand, motioning for
Karen and the two boys to leave. Now that
the joke was over, he wanted to talk to Sara
in private.
Ethan and Jake followed Karen out of the
room, still giggling about Chris's joke.
"Your brother is a riot," Jake told Karen.
"Ha-ha," Karen replied sarcastically. "You

Call Waiting 39
don't have to live with him." They stopped at
the bottom of the stairs. "Know what he did
this morning?" Karen continued. "He put a
fried egg over his eye."
Ethan andJake both laughed.
"You think that'sfunny?" Karendemanded.
"I think it's pitiful."
The boys laughed again. Then Ethan's
expressionturnedserious. Karensawthelight
fade from his brown eyes.
Jake reached for the door, intending to
leave.
Karen decided she had no choice. She had
to know what was troubling Ethan.
"Ethan, whydidyoucomeover?" sheasked
in a trembling voice. "What did you want to
me
talk to about?"

Chapter 6
Ethan tossed his long hair behind him with a
flick of his head. Jake pulled open the front
door. "Come on, Ethan." He tugged Ethan's
sleeve. "You promised you'd help me shovel
snow."
"Oh. Yeah," Ethan replied. He picked up
his—jacket. Then he raised his eyes to Karen.
"I 111 call you later, okay?"
"See you," Jake called back to her. He
pushed the storm door open, and both boys
headed out into the snow.
Karen stood and watchedthemfrombehind
the glass door as they made their way to
Ethan's red Bonneville. Jake reached down
with his long, gangly arms and scooped up a
handful ofsnow frombeside the driveway. He
heaved it at Ethan without bothering to form
it into a snowball.
40

Call Waiting 41
The snow made a white streak on the back
ofEthan'sjacket. To Karen's surprise, hejust
kept walking. He didn't bother to retaliate.
Something has really got Ethan upset,
Karen knew. He didn't act like himself at all
just now.
Did he come over to tell me he wants to
go out with Wendy Talbot? Did he come
over to break up with me, and then lose his
nerve?
The cold seeped in from outside. She
slammed the front door shut, but the white
glare of the snow stayed in her eyes. She
blinked, waiting for her eyes to adjust. Then
she hurried to the kitchen to phone Micah and
tell her to come over.
Micah obediently arrived about half an hour
later. She had her thick, blonde hair pulled
back in a loose ponytail. She wore a white
sweater over black leggings.
Micah stretched out on her back on the
couch in the den, holding one of the square
couch pillows between her hands. Karen sat
cross-legged on the carpet, her back against
an armchair.
"Karen, lightenup,"Micahscolded. "You're
probably making the whole thing up."
"No, I'm not," Karen insisted glumly. She

42 R.L. Stine
rubbed her neck. The muscles had all tight-
ened up.
"You really think he came over here to
tell you about him and Wendy?" Micah
tossed the pillow up and caught it in both
hands.
"He had the strangest look on his face, Mi-
cah," Karen said. "You know how laid back
Ethan always is. Not today. I could tellhe was
upset."
Micah tossed the pillow up again. She let it
drop through her hands, onto her stomach.
"Hewasprobablyjusttired, Karen. Youknow.
From working so late."
Karen sighed. She stared down at her
woolly white socks. When she finally spoke,
hervoice came out shrillandangry. "If Wendy
tries to steal Ethan from me, 111 kill her. I
really will!"
"Whoa!" Micah sat up abruptly, lowering
her feet to the floor. She tossed the pillow at
Karen. It bounced offKaren's shoulder. "Stop
talking like that!"
"I mean it,"Kareninsisted—. "IfEthanbreaks
up with me because of her "
"Listento yourself," Micahinterrupted, her
green eyes locked on Karen's. "Listen to how
crazy you sound."

CallWaiting 43
"It's not crazy!" Karen protested in a shrill
voice she didn't recognize.
"How old are you, Karen? You're seven-
teen, like me, right?"
Karen nodded.
"We're only seventeen," Micah continued
emotionally. "We're both going to go out with
lots of guys."
"No! I want Ethan!" Karen cried. She
grabbed the pillow off the floor— and heaved it
againstthe wall. "I wantEthan no one else.
IllkiUWendy. I mean it, Micah. Illkill Wendy!
I really will!"
On Monday morning, Karen woke up early.
She pulled herself out of bed and made her
way to the window. The sky had finally
cleared. A red morning sun was lifting itself
above the bare trees.
She dressed quickly, jeans and a sweater
over two T-shirts. Then she gave her short,
dark hair a quick brush, studying her pale face
in the dressermirror, and hurried downstairs.
Adam will be waiting for his tour of the
school, she remembered. Then maybe she
could catch Ethan and talk to him before
homeroom.
She gulped down atall glass oforangejuice,
herusualbreakfast. Shecouldhearhermother

44 R.L. Stine
bustling about in her bedroom down the back
hall, getting ready for work.
Karenspottedherbootsbythekitchendoor
where she had left them to dry. Pulling a
kitchen stool over, s — he sat down, pushed her
leftfootintotheboot andstartedtoscream.

Chapter 7
—
"Chris I hate you! / hate you!" Karen
shrieked.
She let the boot fall to the floor and rubbed
her wet sock.
Her brother had filled both her boots with
snow.
"You creep! You stupid creep!" she cried.
Before she realized it, she felt hot tears run-
ning down her cheeks.
Chris and theirmotherboth appeared inthe
kitchen doo — rway at the same —time.
"Karen what on earth !" Mrs. Mas-
ters cried, herdarkeyesnarrowedinconcern.
Karen's shoulders were heaving up and
down. She tried to stop crying, but she
couldn't. "It's not funny! Not funny!" she
choked ou—t, pointing at the boots.
"Chris you made your sister cry?" Mrs.
Masters demanded sharply, turning to Chris.
45

46 R.L. Stine
"It was just a joke," Chris replied with a
shrug. "She's unbalanced, Mom. Look at her.
She's really unbalanced."
Karen found Adam waiting in the front hall
at school. He greeted her with a smile, his
dark eyes coming to life behind his black-
framed glasses.
He seemedskinnierthanthelasttimeKaren
had seen him. He wore his rust-colored hair
very short. His chin was dottedwith small red
zits, she saw. He had a loose-fitting, hooded
gray sweatshirtpulled overblack denimjeans.
Karen dropped her coat at her locker, then
led her cousin on a quick tour, starting with
the gym and lunchroom in the basement, and
endingup atthe wood shop inbackonthe first
floor.
"So? How do youlike FranklinHigh so far?"
Karen asked.
Adam shrugged. "So far so good."
He seemsas shyandstrangeasever, Karen
thought. WeVe known each other our whole
lives, but he's as awkward as if he had just
met me.
"I just have to remember that the gym and
lunchroom are downstairs, and the auditorium
is upstairs,"he said, scratchinghisbristlyhair.
"I didn't have time to show you the science

CallWaiting 47
lab orthe computerroom," Karen said, glanc-
ing at the clock above their heads. "They're
on the third floor."
Thehallhadfilledupwithkidseagertostash
their coats and get to homeroom. "Ill walk
you to your homeroom," Karen offered,
shouting over the sound of slamming lockers
and loud voices. "Then maybe I'll see you
later. I want you to meet my friend Micah."
Adam nodded solemnly.
"Your homeroom is right down here,"
Karen told him, starting down the hall.
She stopped when she saw Ethan.
Hehadhisbackpackslungoverthe shoulder
of his blue-and-gray Franklin High jacket. He
wastalkingtosomeone, Karensaw, struggling
to see him through a crowd of kids.
He was talking to Wendy Talbot.
They were laughing together.
Wendy had her hand on the sleeve of his
jacket.
So ifs true, Karenthought, holdingina sob.
Ifs true.
The crowded scene blurred. The kids shim-
mered away. The roar of laughing, shouting
voices faded to silence.
Karen stood alone. Darkness fell over her
like a heavy curtain descending.
I'm alone, she thought.

48 R.L. Stine
Everyone has disappeared.
Everyone.
The voices slowly returned, low at first,
then as loud as before. The darkness lifted.
SomeonebumpedKaren's shoulder. A girlwas
shouting, "Michael! Michael! Has anyone seen
Michael?"
Karen could see only Ethan. He and Wendy
turned away from her, walked side by side in
the other direction. They disappeared around
a corner.
—
"Karen are you okay?" Adam was ask-
ing. "Karen?"
She stared down the blurred hallway.
Werethosetearsinhereyesthatweremak-
ing everything shimmer and bend?
—
"Karen are youokay?"Adamdemanded.
Staring straight ahead, unable to focus, her
knees tremblingwiththewalls, herheartthud-
ding in her chest, the floor twirling beneath
her, Karen knew the answer was no.
Micah had been flirtingwith two boys atthe
next table. Now she turned back to Karen.
"You haven't touched your lunch," she said.
"I know. I can't eat," Karen replied. She
crumpled the tinfoil over her sandwich,
squeezing it into a tight ball.

CallWaiting 49
"Wait a minute! What is it?" Micah asked.
"Is it tuna fish?"
"I don't even know," Karen sighed. She
jumpedtoherfeet, the chairnearlyfallingover
behind her.—
"Karen where are you going?" Micah
asked, star—tled. "We still have twenty min-
"
utes. You
Tm
going to find Wendy," Karen replied in
aflat, lowvoice. Theroomstartedtobluragain
as she said Wendy's name.
Tm
notgoingto cry, Karen told herself, bit-
ing down hard on her lower lip. Tm notgoing
tocry infrontofeveryone in thiscrowdedlunch-
room.
"Karen, sit down," Micah said sternly. She
pointed to Karen's chair. "I mean it. Sit down.
You're not going anywhere." Karen didn't
budge.
Micah's firm tone turned pleading. "Let's
talk, okay? Sit down. Let's talk."
"No, I'm going to find Wendy," Karen said
softly, her voice—revealing no emotion at all.
"But, Karen you can'tl" Micah cried.
"She'lljust laug—h at you. You'll feel like ajerk,
Karen. Karen listen to me!"
Karen didn't reply. She turned and walked
toward the lunchroom exit, taking long, de-
termined strides. She couldhearMicahcalling

50 R.L. Stine
to her, but she didn't turn around.
A group of cheerleaders were huddled out-
side the lunchroom, laughing loudly about
something. From down the hall, Karen could
hear the thud of basketballs from the gym.
Walking quickly, she passed several closed
classrooms. Some kids didn't have lunch until
the next period.
What would she say to Wendy?
Thequestionjarredthroughhermind, made
her slow her pace.
Til tell her there's no way she can have
Ethan, Karen quickly decided.
I'lljust tell her.
She grabbed the metal railing and started
up the stairs to the first floor. Two girls head-
ing down the stairs called out hello to her as
they passed.
Karen didn't reply.
Wendy, where will Ifindyou? she thought.
To her astonishment, Wendy appeared at
the top of the stairs.
She was carrying a huge sculpted head in
both hands. Some kind of art project.
"Wendy, hi," Karen called breathlessly.
Karen's heart seemed to jump up into her
throat. She could feel the blood pulsing at her
temples.

Call Waiting 51
She stepped up beside Wendy on the top
step.
Wendy's straightredhairglowedinthe sun-
light from the window against the front wall.
She turned her gray-green eyes on Karen.
"How's it going?"
How's itgoing?
How's itgoing?
The words repeated in Karen's mind like an
ugly, threatening chant.
How's it going? You know how it's going,
Wendy! Karen thought, suddenly bursting
with fury.
There was a flurry of motion.
A
ripple.
And then thrashing arms.
And suddenly Wendy's sculpted head was
flying in the air.
And Wendy was falling, falling backwards,
her hands reaching for Karen, grabbing only
air.
The papier-mache head bounced down the
hard steps.
Thud. Thud. Thud.
Wendy bounced beside it. Head first.
She let out a low cry each time her head hit
a step.
Horrified low cries all the way down to the
bottom.

52 R.L. Stine
Then she lay sprawled on her back, her
arms outstretched, one leg bent under her,
her red hair splayed around her unmoving
head.
Karen stareddownatherfromthe top step,
her hands pressed tightly against her hot
cheeks.
Have I killed her? Karen wondered.

Chapter 8
Did I kill her? Karen asked herself.
Did I push h — er?
Did she fall or did I push her?
Karen couldn't remember.
The two girls who had been walking down
the stairs were huddled over Wendy. Karen
didn't move from th—e top step.
I didn't push her did I? She fell. I'm sure
she fell.
Downbelow, Wendygroaned, hereyes still
shut.
The two girls suddenly raised their eyes
accusingly at Karen.
"No, I didn't push her!" Karen shouted.
"She fell. I didn't push her!"
And then, Karen was running. Running
down the hall.
HerblueDocMartensslappedthehardfloor
as she ran.
53

54 R.L. Stine
/didn'tpushher. I'mprettysureIdidn'tpush
her.
I don't remember. I don't really remember.
Where was Karen running?
She wasn't sure. Shejust knew she wanted
to run forever.
—
"Karen could you come downstairs,
please?"
Her mother's voice invaded Karen's room.
Karenmade herway to the — bedroomdoor and
opened it a crack. "Mom I told you. I'm
not hungry. I can't eat dinner."
Karen had hurried home from school and
shut herself up in her room. She glanced at
the clock radio. Nearly seven o'clock.
Her eyes moved to her backpack, lying un-
opened on the floor beside her desk.
What have I been doing all this time? she
asked herself. I haven't done any homework.
I was lying on the bed, I remember, staring
up at the cracks in the ceiling.
Did I fall— asleep?
"Karen come down," her mother in-
sisted. "Or shall I come up?"
Karen pressed her cheek against the bed-
room door. "What do you want?" she called
down warily.

CallWaiting 55
"Totalk,"hermothershoutedfromthebot-
tom of the stairs.
Karen sighed. She didn't want to talk. She
couldn't talk.
Whatwas she supposedto sayto hermom?
"Guess what, Mom? Ethan got interested
inanothergirl, so Ipushedherdownthe stairs
today and tried to kill her."
How would that go over?
She hesitated, her face still pressed against
the door.
Hermother's footsteps were light andrapid
on the stairs. Karen backed away from the
door. Mrs. Masters entered, her dark eyes
stopping on Karen, her birdlike features set
with concern.
"Mom, I'm okay. I'mjust not feeling well,"
Karen said, backing up.
"Thatwas Micah on the phone," Mrs. Mas-
ters said, crossing her skinny arms over her
chest. She wore a lime-green turtleneck over
black corduroy slacks.
"Huh? Micah? She called?" Karenshookher
head hard, as if trying to clear it. "Why didn't
you tell me?"
"She called to speak to me," Mrs. Masters
replied softly.
Karen wrinkled her forehead, bewildered.

56 R.L. Stine
She slumped down on top of the bed. "How
come?"
Mrs. Masters took a few steps toward her,
her arms still tightly crossed in front of her.
"Micahtold meyouhadalittletroubleinschool
today." Her voice caught on the last word.
She coughed and cleared her throat.
"She did?" Karen was confused. What had
Micah said? Why had Micah called? What did
Micah think she was doing?
"Do you want to tell me about it?" Mrs.
Masters asked, her dark eyes piercing so
deeply into Karen's that Karen had to look
away.
"Not much to tell, really," Karen muttered.
Why don'tyou leave me alone?Justgo away
and leave me alone?
"Micah said you made threats about some
girl. A girl named Wendy," her mother said,
clearing her throat again.
"Threats? Not really threats," Karen re-
plied, staring down at the wornbrown carpet.
"Micah said you made threats in the lunch-
room. Then, a few minutes later, this girl fell
down the stairs. Micah said the girl had to be
taken to the hospital for X rays. That she has
a concussion."
"Just a slight concussion," Karenmuttered.
"She's going to be okay."

CallWaiting 57
"But some kids saw you there. Some kids
think you pushed her," Mrs. Masters said
softly, her eyes burning into Karen's. "That's
what Micah told me."
"No!" Karen cried. "No! That's aHe! That's
a stupid lie!" She had meant to stay calm, but
her words burst out in a shrill screech.
Hermother'smouthdroppedopenforasec-
ond, revealing her surprise. Her dark eyes
flashed, thenquicklydimmed. "Karen, youcan
talk to me," she said with feeling.
She walked up to the bed and placed her
hands on Karen's shoulders. "You know you
cantalktome, don'tyou?" sherepeatedsoftly.
"You can tell me what's troubling you."
"I know, Mom," Karen whispered.
Mrs. Masters leaned down to hug her.
Karen sat stiffly, enduring the hug, not mov-
ing. Thinking about Micah.
"Well, whenever you're ready to talk, I'm
here," Mrs. Masters said softly.
As her mother turned and walked slowly
from the room, Karen began to tremble. It
took her a while to realize she was trembling
inanger. Sheleapttoherfeet, closedherdoor,
and began pacing rapidly back and forth, her
hands clasped tightly in front of her.
How could Micah do this to me? she won-
dered.

58 R.L. Stine
How could Micah betray me like this?
I thought she was my friend. My best best
friend. Someone I could trust.
So how could she rat on me to my mother?
Why did she callbehindmybackandtell my
mother what happened today?
Karen reached for the phone. She grabbed
it with such force, she knocked it onto the
floor.
Thereceiverbouncedacrossthecarpet.
The dial tone buzzed angrily as she stooped
to retrieve it.
Herheartpounding, she punchedinMicah's
number.
Micahpi
—
ckedupafterthefirstring. "Hello?"
" — Micah why?" Karen cried breathlessly.
"I I don't get it! Why did you do it? Why
did you call her?"
"I thought I had to," Micah answered qui-
etly, calmly. "Areyouokay, Karen?Yousound
terrible."
"Why?" Karen repeated. "Why did you tell
my mom?"
"For your own good," Micah told her. "I'm
worried about you, Karen. Really worried. I
thought your mother should know."
Karen could feel her anger rise up, take
—
over. She was losing control and she didn't
care.

CallWaiting 59
"You betrayed me!" she shrieked into the
receiver. —
"Now, wait " Micah started to protest.
"You're not my friend! You're not! Don't
ever talk to me again!" Karen slammed down
the receiver.
She realized she was gasping for breath.
"Micah isn't my friend anymore," she said
aloud in a choked voice. "Micah isn't my
friend."
Ethan is the only one I have left, Karen
thought, struggling to slow her racing heart,
struggling to make the throbbing in her tem-
ples go away.
She rubbed her stiff neck with both hands.
Ethan is the only one left, she told herself.
Ethan squeezed the steering wheel with
bothhands. He shookhisheadbitterly. "Ican't
believe I missed those two foul shots," he
sighed.
Karen reached across the seat and placed a
comforting hand on the shoulder of his blue-
and-gray school jacket. "We won, anyway,
Ethan," she said softly. "So it really didn't
matter."
"It mattered to me," he replied sharply.
They both stared out into the darkness. It
was Friday night, and he had driven her home

60 R.L. Stine
afterthe game. Parkedinherdriveway, Ethan
left the lights on and the engine running, as if
he were eager to leave.
'Want to come in?" Karen asked.
He scowled, still thinking about his missed
foul shots.
"No one's home," Karen added. "My
My mom
brother has a date. is visiting her
cousin."
"It was a bad night," Ethan murmured. "I
didn't get any rebounds, either. The ball just
didn't bounce my way."
"Come on, Ethan. We won\" Karen cried
impatiently. She tugged his sleeve. "Are you
coming in or not?"
His expressionchangedashe turnedtoher.
He tossed his long hair behind him with a flick
of his head. His hands tapped the wheel,
pounding a nervous rhythm.
"Karen, there's something I have to tell
you," he saidina strange, tightvoice. "You're
not going to like it. But I have to say it, any-
way."

Chapter 9
Karen's breath caught in her throat. She sud-
denly—felt cold all over.
"I I think we should start seeing other
people," Ethan blurted out, speaking quickly,
slurringitallinto one word. He stared straight
ahead, avoiding her eyes.
"Huh?" Karen uttered.
She had been expecting it. —
She had been expecting it but now it
came as a total shock.
Was he really breaking up with her?
"We could still go out," Ethan said, turning
sheepishly to her. "I mean, we could go out a
lot. I still really like you. I mean, we always
have so much fun together. We could s—till go
"
on our bike rides and everything. But
"Ethan, what are yousaying?" Karen cried.
She wanted to hold herself together, but her
voice came out shrill and choked. And her
61

62 R.L. Stine
shoulders were starting to tremble.
He slid his hands tensely over the wheel.
"Ijust think we should see other—people, too.
There's no reason why we can't "
"No reason?" Karen shrieked. "No
reason?"
—
"Karen, calm down okay?" Ethan said
impatiently. "Can't we just talk?"
"Talk? What's there to talk about?" Karen
cried. "I ca — n see your — mind is made up."
"Karen please we've always been
able to talk to each other. That's one thing I
really like about you."
"What's there to talk about?" Karen
screamed. A wave of anger swept over her.
She felt so angry, so hurt. She had a strong
impulse to grab Ethan by the shoulders and
shakehim, shakehimuntilheunderstoodwhat
he was doing to her.
"We can still go out some Saturdaynights,"
Ethan offere—d weakly. "And we can still play
chess. And "
"Shut up!" Karen cried, surprised by the
violence of her feelings. "Shut up! Just shut
up, Ethan!" Tears rolled down her cheeks.
"Are you breaking up with me or not?"
"No!" he replied instantly. "I mean . . .
well ."
. .

CallWaiting 63
"/ didn't push her!" Karen shrieked. "I
didn'tpush her! Shefell!"
Ethan gaped at her in shock.
TearsrolleddownKaren'sface, blurringher
vision, putting Ethan behind a wet curtain,
making him seem far, far away.
"Karen, calm down," he pleaded, gr — abbing
"
her hand. "Calm down. I didn't mean
Shejerkedherhandaway. "You can'tbreak
up with me! You can'tl" she insisted, sobbing
loudly.
Et — han shook his head helplessly. "I only
"
said
"Shut up! I heard what you said!" Karen
grabbed the door handle and pushed the door
A
open. gust ofcold air brushed her hot face.
Her tears blinded her, making the darkness
appear to swim in front of her.
"You can't! You can't!" she screamed.
Without realizing it, she had stumbled out
of the car.
Karen, you're totally out ofcontrol, a voice
said inside her. Karen, if you don'tgetcontrol,
you'll lose Ethanforever.
But how can I? she asked herself.
Her legs felt weak. Her knees were quiv-
ering. Her chest heaved with each sob.
"Ill call you later," Ethan said, reaching to
pullthepassengerdoorshut. 'Trytogetyour-

64 R.L. Stwe
self together, okay? Ill call you when I get
home, and we can talk."
Karenturnedandran sobbingaroundtothe
back of the house. Ethan's headlights rolled
over her as he backed down the drive.
Crazythoughtsjangledthroughhermindas
she fumbled in her bag for her house key.
Crazy, frantic thoughts.
/ won't let him break up with me.
I'll kill him first. I really will.
Maybe I didpush Wendy. I don't care.
WhatcanIsaytohim?HowcanImakehim
change his mind?
Finally, she pulled outthekeyandmanaged
to push it into the lock with a trembling hand
on the third try. She pushed open the kitchen
door and closed it quickly behind her.
The kitchen smeUed oforanges. The house
was dark. Sherantothestairswithoutturning
on any lights. Her heart pounding, her eyes
still blurred by tears, she ran up to her room
and dropped face down on top of her bed.
"Doesn't Ethan realize how much I care
about him?" she said aloud.
She buriedherfaceinthepillowtostifleher
sobs. Hercrazythoughtsbouncedthroughher
mind. She gave in to them, made no attempt
to stop them.
After a while, she realized she still had her

CallWaiting 65
coat on. She climbed to her feet, breathing
hard. She had stopped crying, but allthe tears
had given her a sharp headache at both
temples.
Rubbing her temples, trying to rub the pain
away, shemadeher
—
wayacrosstheroom. She
clicked on the light and cried out.
Her old teddy bear had been hung by the
neck in the cord to the Venetian blind. It
drooped limply, its head tilted, its one re-
maining black eye staring across the room at
her. —
"Chris you stupidjerk!" Karen shouted.
How can he be such a creep? she asked
herself bitterly.
As she started across the room to rescue
the old bear, the phone rang.
It's Ethan! she realized.
What am Igoing to say? What?
Got to think. Got to think clearly.
HowcanImakehimseehowmuchhemeans
me?
to
She picked the phone up in the middle of
the second ring. "Hello?" Her voice came out
a soft whisper.
"Karen, it's me." Ethan. "Ijust . . . uh . . .
wante — d to see how you were doing."
Fm
"I better,"shestammered. "Youjust
surprised me, that's all."

66 R.L. Stine
"I'm sorry/' Ethan replied, but wi — th little
"
feeling. "This is hard, Karen. I hope
Tm
sorry I acted like such a jerk," Karen
interrupted. She rubbed her throbbing temple
with her free hand. "I didn't mea — n to scream
"
at you like that. You must think
"No. Don'tworryaboutit,"Ethansaid. "I'm
just glad you're okay now. I mean, you sound
calmer."
"Ye — ah. I guess," Karen replied. "It's just
"
that
"Well, goodnight," Ethan said. He sounded
very eager to ha — ng up. — "See you in school."
"Wait, Ethan uh I just want —to say
"
something to you. I just want to say
Karen was interrupted by a loud clicking
sound.
"Oh. Hold on, Ethan," she pleaded.
"There's a call on the other line. It might be
my mother."
More
clicking.
"Ihate CallWaiting," Karensaid. "Italways
interrupts at the wrong time. Hold on a sec,
okay?"
"Okay," Ethan agreed.
More clicks. Then silence.
When Karen returned to Ethan a few sec-
onds later, hervoice was tremblingand weak.

CallWaiting 67
—
"Ethan, please comeover! Comeoverhere
right away!"
"Karen? What's wrong?" Ethan demanded.
—
"I'mall alone here, Ethan. Please hurry!
He said he was going to kill me!"
"Huh? Who?"
"The voice onthe phone. It was so horrible,
Ethan. He said he was going to kill me!"

Chapter 10
When Ethan's car pulled up the driveway,
Karenranouttomeethim. Ashesteppedout,
she threw herself into his arms, pressing her
face agains—t his.
"Ethan it was so frightening!" she cried.
He kepthisarms wrappedaroundhertrem-
bling shoulders.
— She pressed her hot face against his. "He
he said such horrible things to me!" she
told him.
His armaround Karen's shoulder, Ethanled
herintothe house. Theirshoes crunchedover
thehardsnow. "Itwasprobablyajoke,"Ethan
said s—oftly.
"I I don't think so," she stammered.
She clicked on the den light, and they sat
close togeth — er on the couch. She shivered.
"The voice it was just so terrifying!"
68

CallWaiting 69
Shepressedherforeheadagainsthis cheek.
His long hair tickled her face.
"It was a man?" Ethan asked softly.
"I think so, I couldn't really tell," Karen
replied. "The voice was a whisper. Very
hoarse. Th — at's what made it so frightening.
And then the things he said. ..."
"What did he say?" Ethan demanded, ten-
derly, soothingly stroking her dark hair.
Karen shivered again. "He said such ugly
things, Ethan. He saidhe was goingtokill me.
He said he knew where I lived, and he was
going to kill me. He said that first he would
describe how he planned to do it, and then he
would do it."
Eth — an shook his head. He stroked her hair.
"
"I Ijust kept screaming, 'Who is this?'
Karen continued, squeezing Ethan's hand. "I
couldn't believe it was happening. I mean, you
see stuff like this in movies and on TV. But I
couldn't believe it was happening to me."
"It's got to be ajoke," Ethan said thought-
fully. "Some kind of sick joke."
"Doyoureallythinkso?"Karenasked, hold-
ing on to him tightly.
"He'll never call again," Ethan assured her.
"You can'tletitfrightenyou.Justforgetabout
it. Really."

70 R.L. Stine
Karen shuddered- "That weird, hoarse
voice. Fll never forget it. Never! Who would
playajokelikethat?Whatkindofsickperson?"
"Would you feel better if we called the po-
lice?" Ethan asked.
Karen pulled away from him and sat up.
"The police? Maybe we should."
Ethan started to his feet. "Fll call them for
you."
Karen pulled him back down. "No. Wait.
They wouldn't do anything. What would they
do? They'djust tell me it was someone's idea
of a joke."
"Probably," Ethan replied, frowning.
"I hope it is a joke," Karen said, biting her
lower lip. "—I hope it is. It was so ugly, Ethan.
So ugly. I I'm still shaking."
"It's okay. I'm here now," he said softly.
"It's okay, Karen."
Hewrappedherinhisarms. Sheleanedinto
him, raisedherfacetohis, andkissedhimuntil
she stopped trembling.
Monday. Dreary Monday, Karen thought
unhappily.
As sheloadedherbackpacktogohomeafter
school on Monday, Karen realized it had been
a drearier day than most.
She had seen Micah at least a dozen times,

CallWaiting 71
and neither of them had spoken to the other.
Karen ate lunch by herself at a table in the
cornerofthelunchroom. Micahatewith some
tenth-grade girls Karen didn't know.
Allday Karenhadthe feelingthatkids were
staring at her. In the hall just before fifth pe-
riod, a group ofgirls suddenly stopped talking
as Karen passed.
Were they talking about me? Karen won-
dered.
Were they talking about me and Wendy?
When the final bell rang, Karen gratefully
hurriedtoherlocker, eagerto leave. Hoisting
her backpack onto the shoulder of her down
coat, she stepped out the front exit, into
a dark afternoon, the sky cloud-laden and
charcoal-colored, nearly as dark as night.
Is it going to snow again? she wondered,
loweringherhead againstthe onrushingwind.
Shehadcrossedthe streetandtrudgedhalf-
way downthe nextblockwhen she heardrun-
ning footsteps behind her.
Was someone coming after her?
Before she could turn her head, two hands
grabbed her roughly around the waist.
"It's me, Karen!" a hoarse voice whispered
in her ear. "It's me!"

Chapter 11
"Let me go!"
Karen squirmed out of the grasping arms
and spun around,
—
"Adam!" she cried. "Adam you scared
me
to death!"
He laughed. He had a silent laugh that
soundedmore like coughingthanlaughing. His
eyes flashed excitedly behind his glasses.
He shook his head. "You're too easy," he
said, giving her arm a playful shove.
"Huh? What do you mean?" Karen de-
manded, waiting for her heartbeat to return
to normal.
"You're too easy to scare. No challenge,"
Adam
said.
What does he mean by that? Karen won-
dered.
Adampickeduphisbrownleatherbriefcase.
They started walking, side by side.
72

CallWaiting 73
Adam had a red-and-white-wool ski cap
pulled down over his spiky, rust-colored hair.
He wore a khaki-colored coat that was too
short for him. His workboots clomped noisily
against the sidewalk.
'What's with the briefcase?" Karen de-
manded. "Isn't that a little dorky? Why can't
you carry a backpack like everyone else?"
"I don't like to be like everyone else," he
replied. "I like to be different. I can't be like
everyon — e else. You know that, Karen."
"But a briefcase?" Karen cried, staring
at it.
"I like it," he replied, swinging it as he
walked.
"Well, how's it going?" Karen asked. "Your
classes okay? You meet anybody?"
"Yeah. I guess I'm doing okay." They
walked in silence for a while. "I thought you
were going to introduce me to your friend.
Micah."
"I'm not talking to her," Karen told him,
feeling her face grow hot.
"Oh. Sorry," he replied.
They stopped at an intersection. A station
wagon filled with four enormous barking dogs
rumbled past. "Where do you think they're
going?" Karen wondered.
"Anywhere they want to!" Adamjoked. As

74 R.L. Stine
they started across the street, his expression
turned serious. "You know, some kids think
you pushed that girl Wendy down the stairs.
I heard them talking today."
"I didn't push her," Karen replied quickly.
"She fell."
Karenpickedupherpace, keepinghereyes
on the black, rolling clouds overhead.
"Wendy is telling everyone you pushed
her,"Adamreported. "She'stryingtogetwit-
nesses. You know, kids who saw it. She says
she wants to sue you orhave you arrestedfor
assault or something."
"That's stupid,"Karenrepliedangrily, mak-
ing a disgusted face. "There weren't any wit-
nesses."
That remark made Adam stop. He shifted
the heavy briefcase to his other hand. "How
do you know there weren't any witnesses?"
"There were only two other girls on the
stairs," Karen told him. "And theywere look-
ing the other way."
Adam studied her face suspiciously. "And
Wendy just fell?"
"She slipped, I guess," Karen said un-
comfortably.
The wind swirled around them. The sky
grew even darker.
A car rolled slowly past. A red car. Karen

CallWaiting 75
turned, thinking it might be Ethan. But it
wasn't.
"She's very angry at you," Adam reported,
scratching his hair through the wool ski cap.
"You'dbetterstayawayfromher,"hewarned.
"No problem," Karen replied dryly. They
started walking again, lowering their heads
againstthe strongwind. "Maybe Wendymade
the phone call," she addedinalow, thoughtful
voice.
"What? What phone call?" Adam asked.
She told him about the hoarse, whispering
voice that threatened to kill her.
"Weird," Adammuttered, shakinghishead.
"Did you tell your mother?"
"Notyet," Karenreplied. "Ethansaidit was
a joke. A one-time thing. And if it was just a
one-time thing, I didn't want to tell my mom
and get her all worried."
"Yeah. Right," Adam said thoughtfully, his
eyes narrowed behind the black-rimmed
glasses. "It'saone-timething, Karen. I'msure
it's a one-time thing."
"So are we going to the new dance club
Saturday night?" Karen asked. She sat on the
edge of her desk chair, cradling the phone
betweenherchinand shoulderas she brushed
clear polish onto her nails.

76 RX. Stine
It was a little after seven-thirty Monday
A
evening. frozen rain pattered against the
bedroom window behind her.
On the other end of the phone line, Ethan
hesitated. "Idon'tknow. I mayhave towork."
Is he lying to me? Karen wondered.
Why does he sound as if he's lying? Am I
just being paranoid? —
"You worked lastSaturday remember?"
she said crossly.
"I know," Ethan sighed. "I have to talk to
Tony. At the Sizzler. IfI can trade shifts with
Tony, then you and I can go out Saturday."
He's lying, Karen decided.
He's definitelylying. Heplanstogooutwith
Wendy on Saturday night, and he's making up
a story sohe doesn'thave totell me the truth.
"I reallywantto seeyou," she cooed. "Last
Saturday was so terrible."
"I know. I hope I c—an trade shifts," Ethan
"
replied. "But if Tony
He was interrupted by loud clicks.
"Oh. Wait. That's the Call Waiting," Karen
said, annoyed. "Holdon. Itmightbemymom.
She's working late."
She clicked off.
A,few seconds later, she returned to him.
Once again, her v—oice was shrill and fright-
ened. "Oh, Ethan it was him again!"

CallWaiting 77
Ethan —groaned. "Oh, no."
"He he said he was going to cut my
throat!" Karen cried.
"Try to calm down," Ethan advised. "Did
you recognize the voice? Could you tell who
was?"
it
"No," Karen told him. "He said he was
closer than I knew. He said he could get into
my house any time he wanted. Then he said
he was going to cut my throat!"
She let out a frightened sob. "It was so
horrible, Ethan! So horrible!"
"I'll be ri—ght over," Ethan said.
"Please hurry!" she cr—ied. "He said he
could get into my house any time he
wanted!"
She hung up the phone.
Staring down at her wet nails, she saw a
dark shadow move in the mirror.
She opened her mouth to scream, but no
sound came out.
And then the darkfigure lurched across the
room and grabbed her.

Chapter 12
"Gotcha!" a voice shouted.
Karen gasped in terror and spun around.
"Chris!"
He tossed back his head and opened his
mouth in a fiendish, horror-movie laugh.
"Made you — jump!" he cried triumphantly.
"Chris you jerk!" Karen screeched.
"You're not funny! You're not funny! Leave
me
alone!"
Karen leaned over the desk and buried her
face in her hands. Her trembling shoulders
revealed —to Chris that she was crying.
"Hey what's wrong?" he demanded. She
felt his hand on her back. "What's your prob-
lem, Karen?"
She keptherface buriedinherhands, wish-
ing he would just go away.
"I'm sorry," Chris apologized. "It was just
78

CallWaiting 79
ajoke. I'm sorry. What's wrong, Karen? Why
are you so upset?"
Ethan arrived a few minutes later, his long
hair disheveled, his features set in a worried
frown.
He tossed his jacket over the banister and
followed Karen into the den. He was dressed
all in black, a black sweater over black denim
jeans. "Whose funeral is this?" Karen asked
dryly.
"Don't be so morbid," Ethan replied.
Chris was already in the den, staring out
the window. He turned when Ethan entered
and greeted him with a grunt.
Ethan sat close beside Karen on the couch
inthe den. Hekeptclaspingandunclaspinghis
hands, cracking his knuckles.
Chris paced back and forth across the small
room, shaking his head, glancing at his sister.
"You should put cold water on your eyes," he
advised her. "They're all red and bloodshot."
"I'm okay," Karen replied quietly, raising
her eyes to Ethan.
Chris stoppedinthe middle ofthe roomand
leaned his weight on the back ofthe armchair.
"You look worse than Karen does," he told
Ethan. "You're as pale as a ghost."

80 R.L. Stine
Wind rattled the den window behind her.
Karen felt cold air on the back of her neck.
She tapped her fingers nervously on the soft
arm of the couch.
Tm
just worried about Karen," Ethan told
Chris, leaning forward tensely. "She told you
about the calls, right?"
Chris nodded.
"What if this creep is serious?" Ethan de-
manded.
"Maybe we should call the police," Karen
said thoughtfully.
Chris shook his head. "They'll say it's a
dumb joke, which it is."
"How do you know for sure?" Ethan de-
manded.
"It'seitherakidfromschool,"Chrisreplied,
"or it's some nut who just stays home and
makes threatening calls. We studied these
guys inapsychologyunitlast semester. Iread
all about them." —
Karenletoutanangrygroan. "Chris this
isreallyhappening," she saidsharply. "It'snot
acasehistoryinoneofyourpsychtextbooks."
She tugged at the sides ofher short, brown
hair. "I can't believe this is happening to me."
Another strong blast of wind outside made
the window rattle again. Karen snuggled
against the sleeve of Ethan's sweater.

CallWaiting 81
"These guys never leave their houses,"
Chris continued, still leaning against the back
of the chair. "Most of them are afraid to go
outandfacetherealworld. Sotheystayinside
and make sick phone calls."
"But why me?" Karen cried shrilly. "Why
did he choose me?"
"Are you sure it's ahe?" Ethanasked, rais-
ing his arm and draping it around her shoul-
ders.
"Yeah. Could you recognize the voice?"
Chris demanded.
Karenshookherhead. "Icouldn't. Whoever
A
it is just whispers. very hoarse whisper.
Like someone with really bad laryngitis."
"Well, nexttime, justtellhimto drop dead,
and then hang up," Chris advised. "Look at
you." He shook his head disapprovingly, his
sandy-colored hair falling over his forehead.
"You're a total wreck."
"Chris is right," Ethan told her. "You can't
let yourself get all upset. Just tell the creep
to drop dead."
Karen startedtoreply, but the phone rang.

Chapter 13
Karen grabbed the couch arm. She raised her
eyes to Ethan.
Ethan jumped to his feet, his hands balled
into tight fists at his sides.
Chris hesitated, staringat the phone on the
desk against the window. It rang twice. Then
he moved quickly across the room and picked
up the receiver in the middle ofthe thirdring.
"Hello?" he shouted. "Who is this?"
Hereyesonherbrother, Karencrossedher
arms over her chest as if shielding herself.
Ethan stood tensely beside the couch, also
staring at Chris.
"Oh. Hi," Chris said. "How's it going?" His
solemn expression gave wayto asmile. "Hold
on." He pointed the receiver toward Ethan.
"It's for you. It's Jake."
"Huh? Jake?" Ethan's expression revealed
relief and surprise. He glanced back at Karen
82

CallWaiting 83
ashemadehiswaytothephone. "Nowyou've
got me freaked!"
Ethan turned his back to Karen and began
talking in low tones toJake.
"You going to be okay?" Chris asked with
genuine concern.
"Yeah. I'm feeling a lot better," Karen re-
plied, forcinga smile. "Really. I'm sure you're
rightaboutthecalls. Beingharmless, Imean."
Chris glanced at the desk clock. "Mom is
really putting in long hours," he muttered.
"Well, okay. I'm meeting some friends. Tell
Mom
I said hi. Tell her I'll be in pretty late."
He gaveheralittlewave, glancedatEthan,
who still hadhis back turned, and disappeared
from the room.
Karen rubbed her sleeves with both hands.
The cold air was seeping right through her
sweater. Thisdenhasalwaysbeenthe coldest
room in the house, she thought.
She watched Ethan leaning over the desk.
The light caught the silver ring in his ear and
made itglow. Shelovedthewayhishairflowed
over his collar. She wanted to touch it, tug at
it, pull it through her fingers.
When Ethan finally hung up the phone, she
motioned for him to come sit beside her on
the couch.
"I can't," he said, lingering by the desk.

84 R.L. Stine
"I've got to go help Jake. He can't get the
math. He begged me to come over and do it
with him."
"Oh." Karen sighed. She couldn't conceal
her disappointment.
Ethan started to the door, then stopped.
"You'll be okay, won't you?"
"Yeah. Iguess,"shereplieduncertainly, her
arms still wrapped around herself. She low-
ered them and climbed to her feet.
"You won't get any more weird calls to-
night," Ethan told her.
She followed him to the front door. "Why
don't you stay and help me with my math?"
she asked teasingly, giving him her most in-
viting smile.
He smiled back at her. "Because you don't
need any help with your math," he replied.
"Jake is hopeless. Jake can't do long division."
He picked up his jacket and pulled it on.
Then he kissed her, a short peck.
She reached to put her arms around his
shoulders. But he turned and hurried out the
door. "Later!" he called back to her as the
storm door slammed behind him.
What's your hurry, Ethan? Karen thought
sadly, staring out into the darkness.
Why are youin suchabigrushto getaway?

CallWaiting 85
She didn't have a chance to talk to Ethan
again until Thursday after school. H — e always
seemed to be hurrying somewhere to bas-
ketball practice, to work, or to Jake's.
Her heavy backpack slung over one shoul-
der of her down coat, Karen was on her way
out of the build—ing when she saw Ethan at his
locker. "Hey hi!" She called to him and
went running over.
"What's up?" He greeted her with a quick
smile. "You look great. What did you do to
your hair?"
"Washed it!" Karen laughed. "You're not
going to basketball practice?"
"Coach canceled it for today," Ethan re-
plied. "He had to go somewhere."
"Good!" Karen declared. "Then you can
come home with me, and we can study to-
gether." She broughther face close to his and
whisperedteasinglyinhisear, "Ornotstudy."
"Can't," he replied flatly. "They put me on
the early shift tonight. At the Sizzler. I'm al-
ready late." He pulled his jacket out of the
A
locker. stack of books toppled out onto the
floor. He bent down to retrieve them.
"You've been working a lot," Karen re-
marked, biting her lower lip.
We
"Yeah. really need the money," Ethan
replied, shoving books back onto the locker

86 R.L. Stine
floor. "Oh. I'm sorry. I've got bad news. I
meant to call you last night. I couldn't switch
shifts with Tony." —
She stared down at him. "You mean ?"
"I can't take you to the dance club Saturday
night," he said, avoiding her eyes. "I've got
to work."
"Ethan!" Karen cried emotionally. "I'm
really disappointed."
"Me, too,"herepliedsoftly. He stillrefused
to look her in the eye.
Through gritted teeth, Karen asked Ethan
to call her after work. He said he'd try.
Feeling really annoyed, she offered a curt
good-bye and made her way toward the front
exit, taking long, angry strides. She passed a
group of laughing kids, heading to play re-
hearsal in the auditorium.
Thebuildingwasquicklyemptyingout. Two
blue-uniformed cleaningpeople were dragging
mops and buckets from a small supply closet.
Karenturned anothercorner, headed down
the hall, and nearly ran into Micah. Micah had
her back to Karen. She was tugging at her
tangles of blonde hair with one hand as she
talked quietly to someone, standing very
close.
Jake!

CallWaiting 87
Karen was astonished to see Micah talking
so cozily to Jake.
Sure, Micahwould flirtwithalmostanyboy.
But she never could stand Jake, Karen
thought, hesitating in the middle of the hall.
Sohowcomethey'resuddenlysuchgoodpals?
Weird!
Shewatchedthemtalking.Jakeworeablack
vestoverawhiteT-shirt. Micahgave thevest
a friendly pat.
Weird. Very weird, Karen thought.
Jake spotted Karen first. "Hi, Karen!" he
called to her in his hoarse voice.
Micah spun around. "Karen!" Her green
eyes opened wide with surprise.
Karenturned and started tojoginthe other
direction. —
"Karen come ba—ck!" she heard Micah
call after her. "Karen this is stupid! We've
got to talk!"
Karen slowed her pace for a moment.
Maybe I should stop and talk with her, she
thought.
But she realized she'd be too embarrassed
now. She'd already started to run away.
She turned the corner, ran past the two
cleaners who had already started to mop the
floor, past the auditorium where loud piano
musiccamedriftingout, aroundanothercorner

88 R.L. Stine
—
where she nearly collided with Wendy.
"Oh!" Karen cried out, startled.
She gazed past Wendy down the long cor-
ridor. Empty. No one else in sight.
Wendy's eyes narrowed angrily. Something
gleamedinWendy'shand. Sheraisedit toward
Karen. —
"Wendy no!"Karenshrieked. "Putdown
the gun!"

Chapter 14
Karen's breath caught in her throat as Wendy
lifted the gun higher.
The gun shimmered in front of Wendy's
olive-greenT-shirt. Wendy's straight, redhair
caught the light fro — m the ceiling.
"Wendy, please !" Karen pleaded.
A strange smile formed on Wendy's face.
"Karen, what'syourproblem?" sheasked, her
gray-green eyes narrowing as she studied
Karen's alarmedface. "Youknow I'mthe prop
master for Guys andDolls." She gestured to-
ward the auditorium with the pistol. "They
need this for the rehearsal."
Karen could feel her face grow hot. She
knew she was blushing. She shifted her —back-
"
pack to her other shoulder. "I thought
"Have you lost it totally?" Wendy asked
scornfully, tossing her straight red hair back
withaflickofherhead. She laughed. "Didyou
89

90 R.L. Stine
think it was a real pistol? Did you really think
I was going to shoot you?"
"No. — Of course not," Karen lied. "I just
"
thought
"Bang-bang," Wendy said, rollingher eyes.
She pointedthe prop gunat Karen's stomach.
Karen stared at her awkwardly, waiting for
hernormalbreathingtoreturn, waitingforher
heart to stop pounding.
"I've got to go. I'm late. The rehearsal al-
ready started," Wendy said, starting past
Karen.
"You know, I didn't push you!" Karen
blurted out. She felt her face grow even hot-
ter.
"I know," Wendy replied quickly, her face
revealing no emotion at all.
"Huh?" Her words caught Karen by sur-
prise.
"I know," Wendy repeated. "I was off bal-
ance. That stupid papier-mache head started
to slip out of my hands. I grabbed for it and
fell." —
"Oh — ," Karen replied, feeling foolish. "I
well some kids were saying things. They
said you thought I pushed you." She lowered
her eyes from Wendy's stare.
"No. You didn't push me," Wendy said qui-
etly. "But you didn't stay to help me, either."

CallWaiting 91
Her expression turned hard. Her eyes burned
into Karen's. "You didn't stay to see if I was
okay. You didn't bother to come down the
stairs. I sawyou, just staringdownat mefrom
the top step."
—
"I I know," Karen stammered, feeling
her neck muscles tighten. "I was upset. I was
scared. So ... Iran. Ijustpanicked, Iguess."
Wendy sniffed, but didn't reply. "I've got to
go."Shegesturedagainwiththesilverypistol.
"I know about you and Ethan," Karen said,
letting the words spill out in a rush.
"What? Whatareyoutalkingabout?"Wendy
asked scornfully.
"You can stop pretending," Karen said,
staring down the long, empty hall. A jangle of
piano music floated into the corridor as some-
oneopenedtheauditoriumdoor. Someonewas
pounding the keyboard crazily.
"Karen, Ireallydon'tknowwhatyou'retalk-
ing about," Wendy said in a low, deliberate
voice.
"It doesn't matter," Karen told her heat-
edly. "It doesn'tmatterbecause Ethanis back
withme now. That's the truth. He isn'tbreak-
ing up with me, Wendy. He isn't interested in
you anymore."
Wendy rolled her gray-green eyes again.

92 R.L. Stine
—
"Wow, Karen get a reality check!" she ex-
claimed. —
"Wendy, Fm serious " Karen insisted.
"Fve got to go," Wendy said sharply. She
brushed past Karen and disappeared around
the corner.
Karen stood staring down the empty hall-
way, Wendy's footsteps fading behind her.
I confronted her, Karen thought. I said
everything I wanted to say to her.
So why don't I feel better about things?
Why do I feel so much worse?
She slumpedintotheblue Corollaanddrove
aimlessly around Thompson Falls for a while.
Sometimes cruising around town helped to
calm her.
But not today.
As Karenmadeherwaythroughthewinter-
gray streets, she kept seeing Wendy's sneer-
ing face.
I hate that smug look of hers, Karen
thought. So smug and superior. Like she
knows a secret that I don't.
A secret ... a secret
. . .
Karen stopped for a red light. She tapped
the wheel tensely with both hands, picturing
Wendy, her red hair, her laughing green eyes
... the stupid prop pistol in her hand.

CallWaiting 93
She deliberately scaredme, Karendecided.
I know she did.
Shewaswaitingforme. Sheheardme com-
ing. She raised the pistol to give me a scare.
"Whoa!"Karenmurmuredoutloud, pushing
herfoot downonthe gas as the light changed.
She roared into the intersection. "Whoa,
Karen. Let's not become a total paranoid!
Let's not lose it completely here, girl!"
She drove past the school for the second
time. A few kids had been let out ofthe Guys
andDolls rehearsal and were huddled on the
front walk. A guy Karen knew was trying to
balance on the metal railing beside the walk,
flailinghis arms inthe air, finallyleapingto the
ground in defeat.
ThebackofKaren'sneckached. Sherubbed
it with one hand. The muscles were tight and
hard.
She turned onto Jackson and kept driving.
Houses and yards rolled by in a gray blur.
Karen rolled through a stop sign without no-
ticing.
She couldn't shake Wendy from her
thoughts.
Why did she laugh at me and tell me to get
a reality check? Is it because she and Ethan
really are seeing each other?
No, Karen told herself. No, no, no.

94 R.L. Stine
The Sizzler suddenly came into view on the
right.
Ethan is working in there, she realized.
On an impulse, Karen turned the wheel
sharply, into the parking lot.
I've gottotalktoEthan, she decided. Ethan
will cheer me up.
He didn't like for her to visit while he was
working. The restaurant manager was really
strict. She was always onEthan's case forone
thing or another.
Fll only stay for a few minutes, Karen de-
cided, sliding the car into a parking space in
front of the entrance.
There were only two other cars in the lot.
Sheclimbedoutandstretched, strainingtosee
into the restaurant through the glass doors.
The aroma of charcoaled steak floated out to
greet her.
Taking a deep breath, Karen pulled open
the door and stepped inside. Bright white
lights beamed down on the vast salad bar in
the center of the room.
At first, she didn't see anyone in the res-
taurantatall. Thenshe spottedanelderlycou-
ple sitting across from each other in a blue
vinyl booth against the far wall.
A
waitress walkedpast the saladbar, atray
of water glasses tinkling in her hands. Two

CallWaiting 95
white-uniformedfoodserversstoodbehindthe
long counter to Karen's right.
It's so quiet in here, Karen thought, her
eyessearchingforEthan. Iguessitgetsbusier
in a few hours at dinnertime.
I'll only stay a minute, she told herself.
Just seeing Ethan will cheer me up.
She took a few steps toward the rows of
booths to get a better view.
No Ethan.
He must be in the kitchen, she decided.
"Would you like atable?" ayoungmanwith
spiky black hair stepped up to her with an
eager smile. "One for dinner?"
"No," Karen said, shaking her head. "I'm
lookingforsomeone. EthanParker. He works
here."
"Ethan Parker?" the young man scratched
his spiky hair and looked around. "Oh, wait. I
just started. Here's the manager." He turned
and called to a middle-aged woman at the end
of the food counter. "Does an Ethan Parker
work here?" he called.
The woman came walking over, her eyes
trainedonKaren. "Ethan? Areyoulookingfor
Ethan?" she asked.
Karen nodded. "I just need to see him for
a minute."

96 R.L. Stine
"Well, Ethan doesn't work here anymore,"
the woman told her.
"Huh?" Karen gaped at her in surprise.
"Ethan quit two weeks ago," the woman
said.

Chapter 15
Karen nervously pulled the hairbrush through
her hair. She tossed the brush down. It
bounced offthe dressertop and ontothe floor,
but she made no attempt to pick it up.
I hate the way I look, she thought, frowning
at herself in the oval dresser mirror.
Why do I keep my hair so short and ugly?
Why don't I color it so it isn't so lifeless and
dull? Why don't I wear a little makeup so Fm
not always so ghastly pale?
Why can'tIhavebiggreeneyeslike Wendy?
Wendy. Wendy. Wendy.
Ethan and Wendy.
The names repeatedin Karen's mindlike an
endless, mind-numbing chant.
Ethan quit his job at the restaurant so he
could spend time with Wendy. He lied to me.
He lied to me again and again.
What am I going to do?
97

98 R.L. Stine
She took a deep breath and held it.
Calm down, Karen, she instructed herself.
Calm. Calm
. . .
Letting the air out in a whoosh, she strode
quickly to her desk. She picked up the phone
receiver and punched in Ethan's number.
His mother picked up on the second ring.
"It's me. Karen. Can I speak to Ethan?"
"We're just finishing dinner, Karen," Mrs.
Parker replied. "Can he call you later?"
"N-no," Karen stammered. "FU only take a
minute."
Afewsecondslater, Ethanwasontheother
end.
"Hi," Karen said uncertainly. Now that she
had him on the phone, she began to lose her
nerve. She was no longer sure she wanted to
confront him.
"What's up?" Ethan asked brightly.
Somethingaboutthe cheeriness ofhis voice
strengthened her resolve. Ethan, you lied to
me, shethought. Andnowyousoundsocheer-
fulbecause youthinkyou're gettingawaywith
it.
"Ethan, I went to the Sizzler after school."
The words tumbled out in a hard, tight voice.
"I wantedto talkto you. Buttheytold me you
don't work there anymore."
Silence.

CallWaiting 99
A long silence on Ethan's end.
Then, finally, he found his voice. "Yeah. I
know. I quit. Fve been meaning to tell you."
"Well, why didn't you?" Karen demanded
shrilly.
"I . . . thought you'd be upset. I mean, I
didn't want you to think I was a quitter."
Pretty lame, Karen thought, twisting the
phone cord tightly around her wrist. Even I
could come up — with a better excuse than that.
"The job it was interfering with my
schoolwork. I was falling behind," Ethan con-
tinued. The more he talked, the less convinc-
ing he sounded. "So my parents said I should
quit."
'Two weeks ago," Karen said through
clenched teeth.
"Yeah. I've been meaning to tell you.
Really," he insisted. "I mean, that's why I
haven't been able to go out with you as often.
Because I haven't had any money."
Liar! Liar! Karen thought bitterly.
"Well, I have a little money," she told
him. —
"
"Yeah, but
"Ifyou're notworkinganymore, thatmeans
we can go out Saturday night, right? We can
go to the dance club?"
Silence.

100 R.L. Stine
—
"Well, I'm not sure " he started.
But they were interrupted by loud clicks.
"Oh, that's my Call Waiting!" Karen
moaned. ''Hold on, Ethan. Don't go away."
Her voice trembled. "I hope it isn't that creep
again. He really scares me so much!"
Another click. Nearly a minute of silence—.
Then Karen returned to Ethan. "Ethan
can— youcomeover?"shepleadedbreathlessly.
"It it wa — s him."
"Karen try not to get upset," Ethan
urged.
"Ican'thelpit!"shecried.— "Hesaidthemost
ugly things, Ethan. Please hurry over! He
said he can see me! He said he can see me
whenever he wants!"
"Karen, please. Takeadeepbreath,"Ethan
instructed.
"He said he was coming to cut my throat!"
Karen cried frantically. "He said he's coming
soon!" —
"Karen ?"
—
"Oh, please, Ethan hurry over! You've
got to help me! We've got to figure out who
is doing this! We' — ve got to stop him. It isn't a
joke, Ethan. He he really means it. I can
tell!" —
Karen uttered a tiny cry. "Oh Ethan!
The doorbell! I just heard the doorbell!"

Chapter 16
Karenhurried downstairs to answer the door.
The front room was dark. She was the only
one home. Her mother was working late.
Chris was out with friends.
She stopped at the front door, breathing
hard, andbroughtherfaceclosetothewooden
door. "Who is it?"
Silence. And then a deep, fiendish laugh.
Karen pulled the door open. "Adam? What
areyou doing here?"
"Fve come to drink your blood!" Adam de-
clared in a thick Bela Lugosi-vampire accent.
His reddish eyebrows flew up over his black-
rimmed eyeglasses, and he raised both hands
as if to attack Karen.
"Adam, Fm a little stressed out right now,"
Karen sighed. "Fm really in no mood for kid-
ding around."
"Who's kidding?" Adam insisted. He
101

102 R.L. Stine
stepped past her into the living room. He was
wearingthe too-short, khaki-coloredjackethe
always wore, zipped up to the neck. He had
both hands buried in the pockets. "Is your
mom home?" He peered through the dark
room toward the den.
Karen shook her head. "No. Mom is work-
ing late, as always. And Chris is out some-
where, probably getting into trouble."
"How come you're so stressed out?" Adam
demanded, his eyes studying her through his
glasses.
Karen shrugged. "I just am." She really
didn't feel like discussing the phone calls with
Adam. She had told him about the first one.
But she didn't feel like getting into it with him
now.
Besides, what could he do to help?
"Adam, didyoucome overjusttochitchat?"
she asked impatiently.
He shook his head. "No. I wondered if I
could borrow your history notes. The French
Revolution notes from yesterday?"
"Yeah, I guess. I have them upstairs,"
Karen told him. "But I'll need them back for
this weekend."
"I'll copy them over and bring them back
tomorrow," Adam replied. "Promise."
She started up the stairs to herroom to get

CallWaiting 103
the notes. He followed close behind.
"I love the French Revolution," he said, a
strange grin forming on his pale face. "All
those beheadings."
"Yuck," Karenmuttered, pullingherhistory
notebook from her backpack.
"Slice!" Adammade achoppingmotionwith
one hand.
"Stop!" Karen pleaded.
"Don't you wonder about all those heads?"
he asked, stillgrinning. "Imean, whatdidthey
dowiththeheads aftertheycutthemoff?Just
toss them aside? Or did they bury the head
with the body? Do you think they sewed the
headback on the person and thenburiedhim?
Ordidtheyburytheheadbyitself? Youknow.
In a square hat box or something."
"Adam, you really are making me sick,"
Karen murmured, rolling her eyes. She
handed him the notebook.
"Can'tyoujustimagineallthebloodandguts
pouring out of the neck, and the head rolling
around on the guillotine platform? The history
text really does a very poorjob of describing
it."
"Thank goodne — ss!" Karen declared. "You
really are weird you know?"
"I'mjust really into history," he replied.

104 R.L. Stine
She gave him a playful shove toward the
door. "Go home, Adam."
His expression suddenly turned serious.
"Have yougottenanymore scary phone calls,
Karen? Is that why you're so stressed out?"
"Yeah. I got another one," she confessed.
"Just a few minutes before you showed up."
"Really?"
"It was very scary," Karen told him. "Very
threatening."
She tried to read the expression onAdam's
face. Was that a half-smile he was struggling
to hide?
What was that frightening expression?
Hestartedtothedoor. "IguessI waswrong
aboutitbeingaone-timething,"he saidsoftly.
"Maybe you'd better take those calls
seriously."
A few minutes after Adam left, the front
doorbellrangagain. Karenhadreturnedtoher
roomtostudy. Sheslammedthetextbookshut
atthe soundofthebellandjumpedtoherfeet.
"It must be Ethan!" she declared out loud.
She hurtled down the stairs two at a time
and pulled the door open. "Ethan?"
No.
Peering out into the darkness, Karen
gasped in shock.

Chapter 17
"Micah!" Karen cried in astonishment.
"I've got to talk to you," Micah called
throughthe stormdoor. Hereyesburnedinto
Karen's through the glass.
We
"No. don'thave anythingtotalkabout,"
Karen said coldly.
"Karen, let me in,"Micahcalledimpatiently.
She grabbed the storm doorhandle and pulled
the door open.
"Micah, I'mbusy," Karen insisted. But she
stepped back so that Micah could enter.
Micahhadherthick, blondehairpulledback
and tied loosely with a blue ribbon. She wore
a pale blue down vest over a bulky yellow
sweater, and faded denimjeans with a hole in
one knee.
Karenledherintothelivingroomandstood
in front ofthe couch. She crossedher arms in
front of her and didn't sit down.
105

106 R.L. Stine
Micah made a disgusted face. She stood
awkwardly in the middle of the room. "I
thought you and I were friends," she mur-
mured.
"I thought so, too," Karen replied coldly.
"But I guess not."
What is she doing here? Karen asked her-
self. She isn't my friend any longer. She's a
A
traitor. traitor
I
"I'm really worried about you," Micah said,
ignoring Karen's sneer.
"Worry about yourself," Karen snapped.
"No. Really,"Micahcontinued. Shestepped
closer, her green eyes studying Karen. "Lis-
ten —to me, Karen. You and I are friends,
"
and
"We were friends," Karen interrupted, sad-
ness creepinginto her voice. She struggled to
keep herself together.
Micah turned away. "I'm sorry youfeelthat
way," she murmured.
"That's the way I feel," Karen insisted
angrily.
Micah cleared her throat. Her charmbrace-
let jangled as she lowered her hands to her
sides, balling them into tight, tense fists.
"Ethan isn't worth it," she said, her voice
barely above a whisper.

CallWaiting 107
"Huh?" Karen wasn't sure she had heard
correctly.
"I came here to tell you that Ethan isn't
worth it," Micah repeated emotionally. "He
really isn't."
"Youknowforsure abouthimandWendy?"
Karen asked.
Micah started to say something, but
changed her mind.
—
"Come on, Micah tell me what you
know!" Karen demanded shrilly. 'Tell me!"
Micahshookherheadsadly. "He isn'tworth
Karen."
it,
"Te—ll me!" Karen cried.
"I I can't talk to you," Micah said, start-
ing toward the door. "I can see that. I can't
talk to you now." She made her way quickly
to the front door, taking long strides.
Karen chased after her. 'Tell me what you
know!" she insisted. "Isn'tthatwhyyoucame
here, Micah? To make sure I know the truth
about Ethan and Wendy?"
Micah turned with her hand on the storm
door handle. 'Tm sorry," she said softly.
"Really sorry." Micah hurried out the door.
Breathing hard, Karen leaned her back
againstthe solid doorandwaitedforherheart
to stop pounding.

108 R.L. Stine
I really lost it, she realized. I totally lost it.
Micah must think I'm crazy.
Why did Micah come? What did she want?
Karen's brainwas spinningtoo wildlyto fig-
ure it out.
Did Micah come to warn her? To tell her
some news about Ethan and Wendy?
To help her?
No way to tell.
Maybe if Karenhadn't started screamingat
her, Micah might have explained why she had
come.
I've got to get control, Karen told herself.
I'm just so stressed out.
. . .
Karen made herway to the kitchen and put
the kettle on. Some hot chocolate will help
calm me down, she thought.
As she reached into the cabinet for a mug,
the phone rang. She hurried over to the wall-
phone and picked it up. "Hello?"
"Hi, Karen. It's me."
Ethan.
"Oh, hi. I thought you'd be here by now,"
she told him.
"I can't come," Ethan said hesitantly. "I'm
sorry, Karen. But my parents need the car.
And they need me to stay here with my little
cousin."

CallWaiting 109
"Oh," Karenreplie—d, unable to hide her dis-
"
appointment. "Well
"Will you be okay? Do you think you should
call the police?" Ethan asked.
"I don't know," she told him. "I don't know
what to do."
"When is your mom getting home?"
"Soon," she replied, glancing over the sink
at the kitchen clock. "Any minute, I guess."
"Good," Ethan said, sounding relieved.
"Then you'll be okay?"
"I gue — ss," she replied doubtfully.
"Oh Saturday night. We can go to the
dance club," Ethan told her. "If you still want
to."
"Great!" she exclaimed, brightening.
"That's excellent, Ethan!"
He's going out Satu — rday night with me\ she
thought happily. Me not Wendy!
They chatted for a while longer. Ethan
urged her to call the police about the creepy
calls. She replied that she might.
When the kettle started to whistle, she said
good night and hung up.
She was crossing the kitchen to the stove
when she saw the broom closet door move.
It made a soft creaking sound as it slid open
a fraction of an inch.

110 R.L. Stine
Karen gasped. She locked her eyes on the
closet door.
Another soft creak.
The door edged open another fraction ofan
inch.
—
Karenraisedherhandstohercheeks. "Who
who's there?" she managed to choke out.
The door creaked again, louder this time.
It swung open all the way.
And as Karen gaped in horror, Chris's body
tumbled heavily to the floor.

Chapter 18
Karen cried out as Chris's body landed hard
onits side. It bouncedonce, then lay still, one
arm folded underneath it, one leg bent at an
impossible—angle. —
"Chris Chris ?"
Had he been murdered and stuffed into the
broom closet?
She took a reluctant step toward the un-
moving body.
Was her brother lying dead on the floor in
front of her?
Or was this another dumb practical joke?
Yes. Another dumb jok—e, she thought des-
perately. Please, please make it another
dumb joke.
Chris grinnedather. "Ican'tkeepastraight
face," he said. "You look so totally freaked, I
can't keep a straight face."
"You didn'tfoolme," she lied. She breathed
ill

112 R.L. Stine
a long sigh. "I knew you were faking."
"Liar. You're a liar, Karen. You fell for it.
You shouldhave seenyourface. It was great!"
Laughing in triumph, Chris pulled himself to
his feet.
"When did you get home?" Karen de-
manded, ignoring his gloating grin.
"A few minutes ago," he told her. "I heard
you heading for the kitchen. So I ducked into
the closet. I couldn't resist."
"Your jokes are going to kill me, Chris,"
Karensaid, shakingherheadunhappily. "They
really are."
Saturday night, Karen was drying her hair
when s — he heard the doorbell ring downstairs.
"Chris could you answer it?" she called to
her brotherin the nextroom. "It's Ethan. Tell
him I'm still getting dressed."
She listened for Chris's footsteps on the
stairs, then returned to her hair.
Chris pulled open the door and greeted
Ethan. "How's it going?"
Ethan stepped inside. He shook himself as
if trying to shake off the cold. "It's brutal out
there, man," he muttered to Chris.
The wind slammed the storm door against
the side of the house. Ethan grabbed it and
struggled to pull it shut.

CallWaiting 113
"What a winter," Chris said, closing the
front door behind Ethan. "Is that wind ever
going to stop? It's almost like a hurricane out
there."
"Tell me about it," Ethan muttered. He
glanced up the stairs. "Is Karen ready?"
Chrisshookhishead. "Iheardherhairdryer
going."
"Is she okay?" Ethan asked tensely. "She
didn't get any more scary phone calls, did
she?"
"No. Idon'tthinkso,"Chrisreplied. "Ithink
she's just a little slow tonight." He led Ethan
into the living room. "Take off your coat."
Ethan draped his coat over the back of an
armchair.
"Nice shirt," Chris commented, staring at
Ethan's loose-fitting silky, red-and-gold-pat-
terned shirt. "Did somebody puke on it?"
"Ha-ha," Ethan replied, frowning. 'We'—re
going to that new dance club. You know
the one on the river? It's called River Club."
"Dumb name," Chris said, pulling a handful
of cashews from a glass bowl on the coffee
table. He pushed the bowl toward Ethan.
"Thanks," Ethan said, tossing several ca-
shews into his mouth. "I didn't get any dinner
tonight."

114 R.L. Stine
Chris glanced at the clock on the mantel.
"You're early, man."
"I know," Ethan replied, grabbing another
handful of cashews. "I wasn't sure what time
Karen wanted me to pick her up. I was trying
to call, but your Call Waiting is messed up."
"Huh?" Chris had started to drop some ca-
shews into his mouth, b—ut stopped.
"Your Call Waiting it's messed up,"
Ethan said. "I kept getting a busy signal. I
couldn't get through."
Chris lowered his hand with the cashews
still in it and eyed Ethan suspiciously. "What
are you talking about, Ethan?" he exclaimed,
his expression puzzled. "We don't have Call
Waiting."

Chapter 19
Karen made her way down the stairs a few
minutes later. She wore a silky yellow blouse
tucked into a very short suede skirt over dark
green tights. "Hey, Fm ready!" she called
cheerfully.
She stopped at the bottom of the stairs,
surprisedto see Chris, Ethan, andhermother
huddled together on the living room couch.
They were talking in hushed tones. They in-
stantly stopped and stared at Karen as she
entered the doorway.
"What's up?" she demanded brightly, flash-
ing Ethan a smile.
Her smile faded as the three on the couch
continued to stare across the living room at
her.
"What's the problem? Is my skirt on back-
wards or something?" Karen asked with a
115

"
116 R.L. Stine
short giggle. She moved into the room, study-
ing their faces.
Hermotherclimbedtoherfeet. Shechewed
her lower lip. "Karen, Ethan and yourbrother
have just told me a disturbing story. About
Call Waiting.
"Huh?" Karen didn't catch on at first. "Call
Waiting?"
"We don't have Call Waitin — g," Chris said
"
vehemently. "You pretended
"Oh!" Karen cried out as she began to re-
alize what they were talking about.
"Be quiet, Chris," Mrs. Masters said
sharply. "Let me talk to her." /
Karen could feel her face growing hot. She
knew she must be red as a beet. She turned
her gaze on Ethan. He avoided her eyes and
appeared to shrink into the couch.
"What's the story with these frightening
phone calls?" Mrs. Masters demanded, her
hands cla—sped tensely in front of her.
"Well " Karen took a deep breath.
"You told Ethan someone made threatening
calls to you," her mother continued, her dark
eyes burning into Karen's, as if searching for
answers inside Karen's brain. "Each time,
Ethan was on the line."
Mrs. Masters glanced back at Ethan. "Is
that right?"

Call Waiting 117
Ethan nodded uncomfortably and appeared
to shrink even deeper into the couch.
"YoutoldEthanyouhadCallWaiting/'Mrs.
Masters accused. "But we don't have it,
Karen. So how did you get these frightening
phone calls?"
Hermother staredevenharderather, lean-
ing forward tensely, her hands pressed firmly
against her waist.
Chris shook his head, a tight frown on his
face.
Ethan trained his eyes on Karen. She could
see hurt and confusion in them.
"Okay, okay," she sighed, in a low voice
just above a whisper. "Okay, okay."
She dropped heavily into the armchair
across from the couch. Her shoulders were
slumped. She lowered her head so she
wouldn't have to face their staring eyes.
"Karen, how did you get the frightening
calls?" her mother demanded softly.
"I didn't," Karen muttered.
"What?" Mrs. Masters asked.
"I didn't get any calls," Karen told them. "I
made them all up."

Chapter 20
"I didn't get any calls. I only pretended,"
Karen said softly. She brushed a lock of dark
hair off her forehead with a trembling hand.
"This is so . . . embarrassing," she mur-
mured, keeping her eyes lowered, feeling her
neck muscles tense.
"But why, Karen?" Mrs. Masters de-
manded. "Why on earth would you do such a
thing?"
"Youalways saymyjokes are thedumbest!"
Chris exclaimed, shaking his head. "Well, this
is the dum — best thing I ever heard of!"
"Chris please!" Mrs. Masters scolded
sharply. "Give your sister a chance to talk.
This isn't a joke. It's serious." Her voice
caughtin her throat. She swallowedhard. And
then she added quietly, "It's very serious."
"I really don't want to talk about it," Karen
118

CallWaiting 119
toldthem, rubbingthebackofherneck. "Chris
is right. It was really dumb."
"I'm afraid we have to talk about it," her
mother said. She crossed over to Karen and
put a gentle hand on her shoulder. "I don't
want to embarrass you, dear. I want to help
you. I need to know why you thought you had
to invent those frightening calls."
"To keep Ethan!" Karenblurted out shrilly.
She felt tears glaze overhereyes. She sucked
in her breath and held it, willing herselfnot to
cry.
She felt her mother's hand squeeze her
shoulder tenderly. "I don't understand," Mrs.
Masters said, her voice barely above a whis-
per.
Two hot tears rolled down Karen's cheeks.
She brushed them away with her fingers.
"Ethan was going to break up with me. To go
outwithWendy," she said, avoidinghermoth-
er's reproachful eyes.
"No way!" Ethan protested, pulling himself
to the edge of the couch. "No way, Karen.
That just isn't true."
"I ... I made up the calls so he'd . . . stay
with me," Karen reluctantly choked out. She
raised her eyes, a—pleading expression on her
Mom
face. "Oh, this is so embarrassing!

120 R.L. Stine
Can't I just go to the dance club now?"
Mrs. Masters ranherhandthroughKaren's
hair. Karen pulled her head away. "Can't
Ethanand I gonow?" shepleaded shrilly. "I've
confessed, okay? I admit I was a jerk. So can
I go now?"
"It's sick," she heard Chris mutterfrom the
couch. "It's really sick."
"Shut up—, Chris!" Karen snapped.
"Karen " her mother said sharply. "You
don't— seem to understand how serious this is.
"
You
"Yes I do!" Karen interrupted, jumping to
herfeet. "Yes, Ido! But IsaidI'msorry, okay?
Haven't I been embarrassed enough for one
night? Haven't I?"
"You don't need to be embarrassed," Mrs.
Masters said softly, her dark eyes studying
Karen w — ith concern. "We all care about you,
dear. I I'm going to get you the help you
need."
"Help? What do you mean help?" Karen
screamed. She couldfeelherselflosingcontrol
now. But she couldn't help it. Why was her
mother talkingabouthelp? "I didadumb thing,
that's all," Karen muttered.
"But it's important to understand why,"
Mrs. Masters insisted.
"You mean you want to send me to a

Call Waiting 121
shrink?" Karen cried, squeezing her hands
tightly around her waist, staring angrily at her
mother.
"Adamwenttoaverygooddoctorintown,"
Mrs. Masters said thoughtfully. "Before his
family moved. He was upset about the move,
and this doctor talked to him and helped him
a lot. Til call over there and get the doctor's
name."
"Mother, I don't need a shrink," Karen ut-
tered through clenched teeth.
"It wouldn't hurt to talk to someone," Mrs.
Masters said.
"You're nuts!" Chris declared, stretching
his arms a — bove his head. "Totally nuts."
"Chris I'm warning you!" Mrs. Masters
cried angrily. "You're supposed to be the man
in the family. Instead, you're actinglike a two-
year-old."
Tm
"Hey, not the one who's nuts!" Chris
protested.
Ethan was leaning forward on the couch,
hands clasped tensely in front of him, staring
toward the doorway.
"Can I go to the dance club or not?" Karen
demanded, staring furiously at her mother.
Mrs. Mastershesitated, bitingherlowerlip.
"Only if you promise you'll talk to the doctor,"
she said finally.

122 R.L. Stine
"Okay, okay," Karen muttered grudgingly.
She turned to Ethan. "Let's go, okay?"
Ethanclimbedtohisfeet. Hehadbrightpink
circles on his cheeks. He avoided her glance.
Karen could see that he was totally
embarrassed.
I've reallyblown it this time, Karen thought
miserably.
Everyone thinks I'manut case. Ethan, too.
He'll definitely break up with me now. Why
should he hang around with a nut case?
Pretending to get the scary calls had
seemed like a harmless way to keep Ethan
interestedinher. Whenshe hadseenhimtalk-
ing with Wendy, laughing with Wendy, stand-
ingso close toWendy, Karenhadrealizedthat
she would do anything to hold on to Ethan.
Anything.
But now her desperate plan had backfired.
If only she hadn't been caught. . . .
Ethan followed her to the front closet. Si-
lently, he helped her on with her coat.
He's staring at me as if I'm some kind of
sicko, Karen thought miserably. Ethan thinks
I'm a nut case.
"Not too late!" Mrs. Masters called from
the living room.
"Don't wait up!" Karen called back. She

CallWaiting 123
forced a smile at Ethan, but he didn't smile
back.
They steppedoutintothewindy, coldnight.
The seats in the red Bonneville were cold.
Karen could feel the cold even through her
skirt and tights.
Ethan drove to the club in silence, his eyes
straight ahead on the road, a thoughtful
expre — ssion on his face.
Fm
"I reallysorryabout everything,"
. . .
Karen offered, putting her hand on his.
"It's okay/' he replied without looking at
her.
She forced a laugh. "It's actually kind of
funny, don't you think?"
He hesitated. "I guess," he replied.
At the River Club, Ethan seemed to cheer
up a little. They began to dance as soon as
they arrived, moving to the loud, throbbing
rhythms under flashing red-and-blue lights.
Karen was beginning to feel better, just
starting to relax, when Ethan led her to the
tables at the side of the dance floor. "I'll be
right back," he told her, shouting over the
pounding music.
Before Karen couldprotest, he disappeared
toward the front of the club.
Where is he going in such a hurry? Karen

124 R.L. Stine
wondered. She stood uncomfortably against
the wall, watching the red-and-blue forms of
the swaying, bobbing dancers under the swirl
of lights.
When Ethan hadn't returned five minutes
later, Karen took a seat at one of the tiny
tables. Elbows on the table, she rested her
head in her hands, her eyes searching eagerly
for Ethan.
Where is he? What can he be doing?
She jumped up as a frightening thought
flashed into her mind: Has he left me here?
No. Of course not, she assured herself.
There I go being crazy again.
She decided to follow him. She made her
wayacross the dancefloor, pushingandbump-
ing her way through the dancing couples.
They all seem so happy, she thought. Why
can't Ethan and I be happy, too?
She stopped when she saw him. He was
leaning against the wall, talking into a pay
phone, ahandoverhisfree ear, tryingtoblock
out the loud music.
Who can he be talking to now? she won-
dered, feeling her neck muscles tighten.
Ethan glanced up and saw Karen. He gave
her a quick wave, then turned his back as he
continued his call.
Karen stood at the edge ofthe dance floor.

CallWaiting 125
The red-and-blue lights swirled over her. The
floor appeared to tilt and sway in time to the
steady, relentless rhythm.
She shut her eyes, but the flashing, rolling
colors didn't go away.
When she opened her eyes, Ethan was
standing in front of her.
"Didyoujustcall Wendy?" Thewords burst
out of her.
"Huh?" He swept a hand back through his
long hair and leaned forward to hear her over
the music.
"Didyoujust call Wendy?" Karenrepeated,
shouting into his ear.
"No way," Ethan replied, frowning.
"Swear to me you're not going out with
Wendy!" Karen cried.
"Huh? I can't hear!" He brought his face
closetohers. Hislonghairbrushedhercheek.
"Swear to me!" Karen screamed. "Swear
to me you're not interested in Wendy!"
Ethan solemnly raised a hand as iftaking an
oath. "I swear it," he shouted.
Did she believe him?
She wasn't sure.
As they began to dance, a slow, soft dance,
she held on to Ethan so tightly, so tightly, he
couldn't get away if he wanted to.

126 R.L. Stine
Nearly two weeks later, on a snowy Thurs-
daynight, EthanarrivedatKaren'shouse after
dinnerfor a study date. Mrs. Masters greeted
him at the front door and ushered him inside.
"Is the snow sticking?" she asked, peering
over his shoulder as Ethan stamped his wet
boots on the rubber floor mat.
"It's starting to," he told her. He brushed
somewet snowflakesfromhis long, blackhair.
"Before you go up to study with Karen, I
wanttothankyou," Mrs. Masters saidquietly.
"Huh? Thank me?" Ethan reacted with sur-
prise. He pulled off his backpack and followed
her away from the front stairs.
"You've been so considerate," Mrs. Mas-
ters whispered, glancing to the stairs, not
wanting Karen to hear. "You've been so at-
tentivetoKaren. Ireallyappreciateit, Ethan."
Pinkcircles formedonhis cheeks. He shook
his head hard as if trying to shake away the
compliment.
"It'sbeensogoodofyoutocomeoverevery
night and to see Karen every weekend," Mrs.
Masters continued, not noticing his embar-
rassment. "YouVereallybeen so goodforher.
You have no idea. You really have made the
difference, seeing her through this bad time."
"That's good," Ethan replied awkwardly.
"I'm glad."

"
CallWaiting 127
"Dr. Rudman says that he's had some very
good sessions with Karen," Mrs- Masters
continued, shoving her hands into her jeans
pockets. "He says he's very encouraged by
Karen's progress."
"Great," Ethan murmured.
"Well, I didn't mean to embarrass you,"
Mrs. Masters said, smiling warmly at him. "I
just wanted to thank you for being there for
Karen. Go on upstairs."
"Okay. Thanks,"Ethanreplied. Hoistinghis
backpack over one shoulder, he eagerly made
his way up to Karen's room.
She glanced up from the open book on her
Mom
deskashe entered. "Whatwereyouand
talking about?" she demanded.
"Nothing much. Just the weather," Ethan
told her.
Karen started to say something, but the
telephone rang. She picked up the receiver
after the first ring. "Hello?"
44Karen, this isyour imagination calling," a
harsh, throatyvoicewhisperedinherear. '7'm
Tm
inside your brain. going to kill you. Tin
reallygoing to killyou.

Chapter 21
"No!" Karen screamed.
The phone dropped from her hand, clatter-
ing onto the desk.
"What is it?" Ethan demanded, his eyes
wide with surprise.
"It's real!" Karen cho — ked out. "Ethan, it's
"
real this time! The call
He grabbed the receiver. "Let me hear!"
He raised it to his ear. "Hello? Hello? Who's
there?"
Karen stared at him as he listened intently.
He turned to her, a bewildered expression on
his face. "Just a dial tone," he murmured. He
replaced the receiver.
Karen threw her arms around him and
pressed her face against his chest. "It was so
horrible, Ethan! Such an ugly, raspyvoice. He
said he was my imagination. He said he
128

"
CallWaiting 129
was inside my brain and he was going to kill
me!"
Ethan didn't reply.
Karenpul—ledbackandstudiedhisface. "You
believe me don't you?"
"Yeah. Of course," Ethan replied auto-
matically.
Karen caught the doubt in his eyes.
He doesn't believe me.
Ethan doesn't believe me.
Sheshovedhimangrilyawaywithbothfists.
"It's real this time!" she cried. "It was a real
call, Ethan!"
"Ibelieve you,"heinsisted. "Really, Karen.
I believe you."
But she could see inhis eyes that he didn't.
She could see in his tight-lipped expression
that he thought she was inventing another
drama.
Late that night, Karen lay wide awake, un-
able to fall asleep, staring at the rectangle of
light onherceilingfromthe streetlightoutside
her bedroom window.
The whispered voice repeated its harsh
threat in her mind again and again. "Vm inside
Vm Vm
your brain. going to kill you. really
going to killyou.

130 R.L. Stine
Ethan didn't believe me, she thought
miserably.
He had made an excuse and hurried home.
He didn'tbelieveme. Eventhoughthis time
it was real.
Real. Real. Real.
Was someone really going to kill her?
She shut her eyes, tryingto force the harsh
whisper from her mind, trying to will herself
asleep.
When she reopened her eyes, she became
aware of darting shadows.
Movement. The creak of the floorboards.
A
nearly silent footstep.
Someone is here, Karen realized. Someone
is in my room.
She struggled to sit up, but was held down
by a hidden force, a heavy weight.
Paralyzed. I'm paralyzed.
What is happening to me? Why can't I sit
up?
The floorboards groaned again, closer this
time to her bed.
Shadows bent and shifted.
She staredintothe darkness, still struggling
to sit up.
But the heavy weight pressed against her
chest, held her head flat on the pillow. Her
hair felt wet and sticky under her head.

"
Call Waiting 131
Shadows moved.
She heard a muffled cough,
"I'm insideyourbrain. I'mgoingto killyou.
I'm really going to killyou.
Black shadows slid over gray shadows.
The fl—oorboards creaked and groaned.
"Who who's there?" Karen's voice came
out harsh and raspy. She had the same voice
as the caller on thephone!
"Who's in my room?" she called in the
throaty whisper.
Silence. Sliding shadows close to the bed.
And then a figure moved out of the sha-
dows. And a face lowered itself right above
hers.
"Chris!" Karen cried.
He grinned down at her, his face half in
shadow, h—alf in light.
"Chris what are you doing in my room?"
she cried.
His face floated over hers. His grin grew
wider. His eyes burned down into hers. "It
isn't a joke," he said.
"Huh? Chris? What do you want?" Karen
cried.
"It isn't a joke," Chris repeated. —
And then Karen saw the gleaming blade
and recognized the big kitchen knife her
brother raised slowly in his hand.

Chapter 22
—
"Chris please!" Karen pleaded.
The knife blade gleamed, lowering toward
her throat.
Ifonly she could move. Ifonly she could sit
up, slide away.
But the weight pressed down on her, hold-
ing her there beneath the gleaming blade, be-
neath her brother's frightening, unwavering
grin. —
r
"Chris
He backed away suddenly, his face fading
into the shadows.
And Karen suddenly realized to her horror
that he wasn't alone. Shadows moved silently.
Other faces appeared. —
"Adam!" she whispered. "Adam are you
here, too?"
Beside Adam she saw Ethan. Then Jake.
She saw Micah's tangles of blonde hair next,
132

Call Waiting 133
and then Micah was there. Chris, and Adam,
—
andEthan, andJake, andMicah andWendy!
Their faces were illuminated by a silvery
glow. The glow of broad knife blades.
They all held kitchen knives. The gleaming
blades rose above Karen, shining brighter and
brighter, until she had to turn away, had to
shut her eyes from the shimmering white
glare.
"Have you all come to kill me?" she won-
dered.
"It isn't a joke," Chris said. "It isn't a joke
this time."
No. It's a dream, Karen suddenly knew.
She knew when she opened her eyes, the
faces, the knives, the shadows would all be
gone.
A
Just a dream. frightening dream, she told
herself.
She opened her eyes.
She sat up.
She had been right. She stared into the si-
lent darkness.
Just a horrible dream.
She stared at the ceiling for the rest of the
night, afraid the dream might continue if she
fell back to sleep.

134 R.L. Stine
Afew days later, Ethanmetheroutside the
lunchroom in school "How's it going?" he
asked cheerfully. "Did you ace Carver's mid-
term?"
'Think so," Karenreplied, bendingdownto
pickupapenny. "Hey, lookwhat Ifound. Isn't
finding a penny supposed to be good luck?"
Ethanhad turned away, she realized. Tuck-
ing the penny into her jeans pocket, she saw
that Jake had appeared.
"Where've youbeen, man?"Jake demanded
in his raspy voice, after slapping Ethan a high-
five in greeting. "I haven't seen you in days."
Ethan's cheeks turned pink. "Well, I've
been spending a lot of time with Karen," he
explained.
Karen turned to see Jake glaring at her
coldly.
Jake doesn't like me! Karen suddenly real-
ized. The discovery caught her by surprise.
She had knownJake even longer than she had
known Ethan.
But until this moment, she had never re-
alized thatJake didn't like her.
"You want to grab some lunch?"Jake asked
Ethan.
Ethan turn — ed to Karen. "No. Not today.
"
Karen and I
"Okay. Later," Jake said, shrugging. He

CallWaiting 135
shambledaway, his longgrasshopperlegs tak-
ing unhurried strides. —
"
"If you'd rather have lunch with Jake
Karen started.
Ethan shook his head. "No. Come on. Did
you bring your lunch, or do you want to buy
something?"
Before Karen could answer, she felt some-
one tap the back of her sweater. She turned
aroundto seeJessicaForrest, agirl she knew.
"Karen, there's a call for you," Jessica in-
formed her. "In the principal's office."
"Huh? A call? Who is it?" Karen demanded.
Jessica shook her head. "I don't know. I
work in the office at lunchtime. Theyjust told
me to try to find you."
Karen felt her heart start to thud in her
chest. Blood pulsed at her temples.
Who would callheratthe office? Was some-
thing wrong with her mom? Was there an ac-
cident? Had something terrible happened?
"I'll save you a seat," Ethan said, pointing
to the lunchroom.
Karen barely heard him. Her mind whirring
withfrighteningthoughts ofwhatthe callcould
be, she followed Jessica to the office, half-
walking, half-jogging.
Jessica stopped to talk to some kids. Karen
hurried past her.

"
136 R.L. Stine
Sheranintotheprincipal's officeandbreath-
lessly grabbed up the phone at the end of the
long counter. "Hello?"
'7 can see you, Karen," the throaty voice
rasped into her ear. "I'm in your mind. I'm
your worst nightmare. I'm going to killyou.
Karen's mouth dropped open, but no sound
came out.
The phone receiver trembled in her hand.
Who is doing this to me? she asked her-
self.
Do they just want to frighten me? Or do
they really plan to kill me?
Who Who?
is it?
She tried again to say something. But the
phone had gone dead.
The dial tone buzzed in her ear.
"Don't use that phone," a woman's voice
called.
"Huh?" Karen dropped the receiver onto
the phone.
"Don't use that phone, Karen."
Karen turned, her heart pounding, to see
Mrs. Ferguson, the office secretary, pointing
ather. "Huh? What'swrong, Mrs. Ferguson?"
Karen asked in a quivering voice.
"You'll have to use a different phone," Mrs.
Ferguson instructed. "That phone isn't work-
ing at all, Karen. It's out of order."

Chapter 23
How can the phone be broken? Karen asked
herself, staring hard at it. I just heard that
frightening voice. He talked to me on that
phone!
I didn't imagine it! I didrit\ Karen told her-
self.
With a cry ofdespair, she turned and bolted
from the office. She could hear Mrs. Fergu-
son's alarmed voice calling after her. But
Karen ignored it and kept running.
Out into the crowded hall, filled with kids
returning from lunch, getting ready for fifth-
period classes. Karen turned first left, th—en
right, unsure of where she wanted to go
and stumb — led right into Adam.
"Hey !" he cried out, startled, and
dropped his brown leather briefcase on his
foot.
"Adam?" His surprised face blurred in front
137

138 R.L. Stine
of her. The floor appeared to rise up beneath
her. Karenbackedupagainstthewall, breath-
ing hard, and waited for her head to clear.
"Adam, what are you doing here?"
"I go to school here, remember?" he shot
back, staring at her hard through his black-
framed glasses. "What's your problem,
Karen — ? You look terrible!"
"I don't feel well," she told him, rubbing
her throbbing temples with both hands. "I
really feel sick, I think."
"I have my mom's car," Adam said, leaning
toward her, tryingtomake himselfheardover
the slamming lockers and shouting voices.
"Want me to drive you home?"
"Uh yeah," Karen replied impulsively.
. . .
"Thanks, Adam. I really do feel sick." She
glancedupathim, tryingtomakehisfacecome
intofocus. But it remainedafuzzyblur. "Won't
you get into trouble?"
He shook his head. "I'll drive you home and
be back in five minutes. I only have study hall
next period, anyway."
Karen made her way unsteadily down the
halltoherlocker, where shecollectedhercoat
andbooks. Thenshehurriedouttothestudent
parking lot.
A few seconds later, she was sitting next
to Adam in his mother's old Honda Civic. It

CallWaiting 139
was a wet, gray day. Most of the snow had
melted, but a few large patches dotted the
ground.
The tires spun on a small square of ice as
Adam pulled out ofthe studentparkinglot. He
was tapping the wheel with both hands, ner-
vously rapping out a rapid rhythm.
"Feeling any better?" he asked, eyes
straight ahead on the road.
"A little," Karen replied, pressing her hot
forehead against the cool window. "I have to
call Dr. Rudman."
Adam thought about her answer for a while
before replying. "What's the problem?"
" — Phone calls," Karen saidunderherbreath.
"I Fve been getting these horrible, threat-
ening calls. For real."
Adam didn'treact. He turnedonto Fairfield.
"I just got a call. In the office. This fright-
ening voice. I don't know who it could be. He
said he could see me. He said he was going
to kill me."
Adam glanced over at her, then quickly re-
turned his eyes to the windshield.
"But then Mrs. Ferguson said the phone
was out of order, that it wasn't working,"
Karen continued with a sigh.
Adam hummed under his breath. "Wow."

140 R.L. Stine
"You don't believe me, do you?" Karen
accused.
"Well ."
. .
"No one believes me," Karen said angrily,
"You think Fm crazy, don't you, Adam."
"No. Of course not," he replied.
"Fm not making up these calls," Karen told
him. "Fm not. They're real. Someone is really
trying to scare me. I made up the other calls.
I admit that. It was a really stupid thingto do.
But these calls are real, Adam."
"On a busted phone?" Adam exclaimed.
Karen sank back in her seat.
Adam thinks Fm crazy. He thinks Fm hal-
lucinating or hearing things or something.
Fm Fm
not. notl
She realized she was desperately trying to
convince herselfl
"Well, as soon as I get home, Fm going to
call Dr. Rudman," she said, more to herself
than to Adam.
"Good idea," Adam muttered.
"Why are we stopping?" Karen cried, sud-
denly frightened. She stared hard at her
cousin.
"Because you're home," he replied, ges-
turing out the window.
"Oh!" Karen could feel her cheeks growing
red. "Sorry. I really am a basket case today."

Call Waiting 141
She pushed open the car door. "Thanks for
the lift, Adam. I really appreciate it."
"Hope you're okay," Ad — am said.
"You don't believe me do you!" Karen
blurted out, suddenly feeling very sorry for
herself. "You thinkI'mmakingup these calls."
Adam shrugged his slender shoulders. "I
don't know, Karen." And then his eyes nar-
rowed behind his glasses as he added, "Some-
times I hea — r voices, too."
"Adam "
"Sometimes I hear them late at night," he
continued, his exp — ression solemn.
"Adam, please " Karenpleaded. "I'dbet-
ter get inside, okay? Thanks again." She
climbed out and slammedthe door shutbehind
her.
He's totally weird, she thought as she ran
around to the back door. Totally weird.
Karen let herself into the house. The
kitchen smelled of stale eggs and bacon. The
breakfast dishes were still in the sink.
"Anybody home?" she called.
Of course not. Chris was at school. Her
mother was at work.
She let her backpack fall to the floor,
crossed the room to the refrigerator, and
pulled out a can of Coke.
It felt strange being home in the middle of

142 R.L. Stine
the day, walking through the silent, empty
house. She felt like an intruder. She felt as if
she didn't belong here.
Crazy thoughts,
I'd better call Dr. Rudman, she thought
unhappily.
As she started toward the kitchen phone on
the wall, it rang.
The sound burst through the heavy silence.
Startled, Karen nearly dropped the Coke
can.
A
second ring.
She stood frozen in the center of the floor,
staring in horror at the red wallphone.
Was it the frightening caller?
Washereallywatchingher? Hadhefollowed
her home?
Should she answer it?

Chapter 24
After the third ring, Karen grabbed the re-
ceiver and pressed it to her ear. "Hello?" Her
voice came out tight and frightened.
"Karen? You went home?"
"Ethan!" she excla—imed, sighing with relief.
"
"Ethan, I'm sorry. I
"I waited for you," he said. "By the lunch-
room. What happened?"
Karen could hear loud voices in the back-
ground. She heard lockers slamming, kids
laughing. She knew Ethan was using the pay
phone —outside the library.
"I I got another call," she stammered
into the phone. "It was really frightening,
Ethan. The samehoarsevoice. He saidhewas
going to kill me."
"That's terrible," Ethan murmured without
any feeling. —
"You don't believe me do you!" Karen
143

144 R.L. Stine
accused, her voice trembling. "It was a real
call, Ethan. A real threat. Do you believe me?
Do you?"
He
didn't reply.
The kids' voices in the background seemed
to grow louder.
She heard a long bell ring.
"I've got to go," Ethan told her. —"That's the
"
bell. I was worried about you, so
"Butdoyoubelieve me?" Karendemanded,
not intending to sound so desperate.
"I'll call you later. I've got to run," he said.
"Call Dr. Rudman, okay?"
He hung up.
Karen remained with the phone pressed to
her ear, leaning against the kitchen wall, the
steady buzz of the dial tone drilling into her
brain.
He thinks Tm making it up, she thought
bitterly.
The next morning Karen dreaded returning
to school. Would the kids be gossiping about
her? Would word have gotten around that she
hadleftschoolinthemiddle ofthe daybecause
she was hearing weird Voices on broken
phones?
Her mind whirring with troubled thoughts,
Karen was halfway down the driveway when

Call Waiting 145
she realized she had forgotten her coat.
"I really am losing it!" she said out loud,
hurrying back to the house.
She arrived at school a few minutes before
the finalbell andhurried to the office to deliver
mom
theabsenceexcusenoteher hadwritten.
The two secretaries were arguing about
pencils as Karen stepped up to the long
counter. 'The Number Two pencil is softer
than the Number Three,,, Mrs. Ferguson was
insisting.
"They're not numbered for softness," the
other secretary insisted. "They're numbered
for darkness."
"Mrs. Ferguson?" Karencalled, holdingthe
folded-up excuse n — ote over the counter.
"
"Sorry to interrupt
Mrs. Ferguson made her way to the
counter. "Good morning, Karen."
"My absence excuse," Karen muttered,
handing her the note.
Mrs. Ferguson unfolded the note and
glanced atit quickly. Then she raisedhereyes
to Karen. "I owe you an apology," she said,
folding the note up again.
"Huh? For what?"
"For yesterday," Mrs. Ferguson replied.
She pointed to the phone at the end of the
counter. "The phone wasn't out of order. It

146 R.L. Stine
had been broken for three days. But the guy
came to fix it yesterday morning, and nobody
told me." She smiled at Karen. "Sorry."
"Uh that's okay," Karen replied.
. . .
The bellrang. Karenturnedandhurriedout
the door.
So the phone had been working after all.
Knowing that fact didn't cheer her up at all.
That only meant one thing: The call was
real!
The threat was real.
Someone who knows me is trying to scare
me, Karen realized. —
Someone wants to scare me or kill me!
But who?
The halls were empty. She was late.
Herfootsteps echoedinthe long, silenthall.
A classroomdoorslammedhard, startlingher.
She turned a corn—er, heading to her locker
to deposit her coat and someone grabbed
her from behind.

Chapter 25
Karen cried out, her voice echoing down the
long, empty hall.
An evil laugh invaded her ears.
She spun around. "Chris! You creep!"
Her brother grinned at her, pleased that he
had scared —her.
"Chris what are you doing here?" she
cried angrily.
"Thoughtyoumightneedthis," he said, still
grinning. He held up her backpack.
"Oh, no," Karenmoaned. "Ileftwithout my
coat this morning. Did I forget that, too?" She
grabbed the backpack away from him,
"Getting a teensy bit absentminded, are
we?" he teased.
"Thanks for bringing it," Karen said. Then
she added,"You didn't have to scare me to
death."
"Why not?" he replied, laughing. He gave
147

148 R.L. Stine
heraquickwave, thenheadedtowardtheexit.
Karen stood watching him leave, shaking
her head.
Why does he enjoy scaringme so much? He
really never misses an opportunity.
. . .
A
door slammed, stirring her from her
thoughts.
She dropped her coat in her locker and,
lugging the backpack on one shoulder, ran
down the hall to homeroom.
Karen slipped her hands around Ethan's
neck and pulled his face close.
They kissed. A long, sweet kiss.
She moved her hands up to his long black
hair and stroked his head as she kissed him.
When the kiss ended, she sighed breath-
lessly and lowered her forehead to his chest.
They sat in silence for a long while.
I've never felt so close to him, Karen
thought happily.
She snuggled against him, wondering what
he was thinking.
They were at one end of the den couch. A
singlelampcastanorangeglowovertheroom.
Wish we had a fireplace, Karen thought
dreamily.
She raised her face for another kiss. But
Ethan climbed quickly to his feet.

Call Waiting 149
"Where are you going?" she asked, sur-
prised.
"Jake's," Ethan muttered. "I told him I'd
come over." He glanced across the room to
the desk clock.
"Jake's? How come you're spending so
much time with Jake these days?" Karen de-
manded, unable to keep the hurt from her
voice. —
"He's my friend remember?" Ethan re-
plied sharply.
Karen jumped up and threw her arms
around Ethan's waist. She hugged him, press-
ing her face against his long, soft hair. "Don't
go," she whispered.
Ethan turned to face her, gently removing
her arms from around him- "I promisedJake.
Reall—y."
"I I really don'tfeel like being alone here
tonight," Karen said shakily.
"Sorry," he replied, lowering his eyes.
"Can I call you at Jake's?" she asked.
He hesit—ated. "Well ... we might go out."
"Ethan do you believe me about the
phone calls?" The words tumbled from her
mouth. She hadn't planned to talk about the
calls. But the fact that Ethan doubted her had
been troubling her mind the entire evening.
"Um yeah," he replied, tugging at the
. . .

150 R.L. Stine
tiny silver ring in his earlobe. "I do."
Karen wasn't sure she believed him.
"Doyouhaveanyideawhomightbemaking
the calls?" she asked.
He started toward the front door. "Some
creep, I guess," he replied.
"Some creep?" She followedhim across the
living room.
Halfway to the door, he turned back to her.
"What makes you think it's someone we
know?" he demanded. "It's probably a total
stranger, Karen. You know. Someone who
just punched your number at random."
"No," she insisted, crossing her arms over
the front ofherpurple sweater. "No. No way.
Whoever it is knows my name, Ethan. They
didn't dial it at random. They reached me at
school, remember? They asked for me at
school. They know me, Ethan."
"Yeah. I guess you're right," he-said softly.
He picked up his jacket from the stairway.
"Call me if you need me," he told her.
She came forward to give him a good-night
kiss. But he hurried out the door.
Upstairs in her room, Karen tried to study.
But the words in the government text became
a dark blur on the page.
I feel so alone, Karen thought, bent over

"
CallWaiting 151
the desk, supporting her chin on her fists. I
really need a friend.
Maybe it's time I made up with Micah, she
told herself.
Actually, Dr. Rudman had suggested it.
She and Micah had been close friends all
year. Theyhad so much incommon. Theyhad
always been able to talk about their problems
together.
"Micah." Karen said her name out loud.
"Micah. Micah." Such a pretty name.
She glanced at the desk clock. Almost ten.
Not too late to call.
Fllphone her and apologize, Karen decided.
But before she could reach for the phone,
it rang.
She reached across the desk and picked it
up before the first ring had ended. "Hello?"
"This isyour imagination, Karen.
The hoarse, whispered voice in her ear.
"Vm inside your brain. Can youfeel me in
there?"
"No!" Karen cried angrily. "Leave me
alone! Leave me alone! Do you hear me?"
Vm
"But inside your brain, Karen," the
frightening voice rasped. "J can't leave you
Vm
alone. going to killyou. Maybe —tonight!"
Karen started to cry out again but she
muffled herself when she heard a sound.

152 R.L. Stine
A
sound behind the rasping voice.
One sound.
Karen listened to the sound. Heard it again
clearly.
And knew who the caller was.

Chapter 26
Her heart pounding, Karen grabbed her coat
and hurried out to the car. It was a clear, cold
night. A pale half-moon shimmered in a dark
purple sky. Small patches of snow dotted the
dark ground.
The blue Corolla started easily. But the
windshield was frosted over with a thin layer
of ice.
Karen impatiently tried brushing it away
withthe wipers, butitdidn'twork. Withaloud
groan, she climbed out of the car and scraped
the windshield with a plastic scraper.
"I hate winter!" she cried aloud.
Tossingthe scraper onto the back seat, she
climbed back into the car, switched on the
headlights, and headed away.
/ can't believe this, she thought.
/ really can't believe this.
But she knew she was right. She knew who
153

154 R.L. Stine
had been calling her. She knew who had been
threatening her, frightening her.
Now she had to find out why.
Her foot pressed down all the way on the
gas pedal, Karen drove through a stop sign
without even noticing.
"I can't believe that someone so close to
me would do that!" she cried aloud.
She suddenly realized she was gripping the
wheel so tightly, her hands ached.
With a furious cry, she made a sharp turn
onto Jefferson.
Most of the houses were already dark, she
saw, even though it was only ten-fifteen.
The houses, the front yards, the winter-
bare trees rolled past the window in a dark
blur.
A few moments later, from the top of the
hill where she had spied on him, Ethan's low,
ranch-style house came into view.
Feeling her anger rise in her chest, Karen
loweredher foot on the brake to slow the car.

Chapter 27
Karen stared out at Ethan's house, stretching
darkly over the flat lawn.
The car slowednearlyto ahalt. She realized
her legs were trembling.
Her entire body was shaking.
Shaking with anger. With hurt.
How could somebody so close to me want to
frighten me like that?
It was a question she knew she had to
answer.
The light was on in Ethan's bedroom in the
far corner of the house.
Ishe home fromJake's already? Karenwon-
dered. Is he in there right now?
Ethan. Ethan. Ethan. The name repeated
in her mind.
But the horrifying question pushed Ethan's
name aside:
155

156 R.L. Stine
How could somebody so close to me want to
frighten me like that?
Taking a deep breath and holding it, Karen
drove the car past Ethan's house. Past the
house next to it. Past the empty lot beside
that.
Then she made a sharp right turn into the
long driveway across the street.
The wide yard was still covered by a thin
A
layer ofsnow. light over the porch cast pale
white light over the gray-shingled front ofthe
house.
Thebaretrees shiftedinaslightwind. What
were they whispering to her? Karen won-
dered.
Were they telling her to go back?
Karenclosedthecardoorquietlybehindher
and then raced up to the front door.
What am I doing here? she asked herself,
running on trembling legs.
What amIgoing to do?
What am Igoing to say?
She leaned against the glass storm door,
pressing both hands against the glass, strug-
gling to catch her breath.
The front door, she saw, was opena crack.
A line of bright yellow light seeped through
the opening.

CallWaiting 157
She grabbed the handle of the storm door
and pulled the door open.
She listened.
Silence.
Behind her on the street, a car rumbled
past.
Karen pushed open the wooden front door
just wide enough to slip inside.
Now what?
What do I say? What do I do?
Thelivingroomwasbrightlylit. A firecrack-
led in the fireplace. All of the lamps were on.
The chrome-and-white-leather couches ap-
peared to glow in the bright light.
Anenormous, framedmovie posterofClark
Gable and Vivien Leigh from Gone With the
Wind hung on the wall opposite the window.
Karen had always loved that poster, loved
the strength of Clark Gable as he carried Vi-
vien Leigh up the tall staircase.
But now it filled her with revulsion.
She hated the poster, hated the modern
white couches and chairs, hated the room, the
whole house.
Why am I here?
What willI say? What will I do?
Karen gasped and froze against the wall as
Micah came into view.
Micah had her back to Karen. She was

158 R.L. Stine
dressed in loose-fitting gray sweats.
She sat on a square, white leather ottoman
in front of the window. One hand held a cord-
less phone to her ear. The other hand toyed
with strands of her thick, blonde hair.
Her back pressed against the wall, her
knees shaking so hard she could barely stand,
Karen stared across the brightly lit room at
her old friend.
What should I say to her?
What should I do?
—
"Micah !" Karen screamed before she
—
even realized it. "Micah I know it's you!"
Micah gasped and dropped the phone to the
plush white carpet. She jumped up unsteadily
from the ottoman, her green eyes wide with
shock.
"How did you get in?" Micah cried.
Karen stepped toward her. "I know it was
you!" she repeated in a tight, angry voice she
didn't recognize. "Why, Micah? Why did you
do that to me?"
"Huh? How do you know was me?" Micah
it
snapped back, her shocked expression turning
to anger. "How do you know, Karen?"
"Oh, Micah," Karen sobbed. "I heard the
chimes. It was ten o'clock. I heard the stupid
chimes behind your whispering voice."

CallWaiting 159
Micah's mouth dropped open, but no sound
came out.
"Oops." Micah shrugged. Her expression
remained hard, her eyes trained warily on
Karen.
"Why?"Karendemandedagain, takingafew
steps closer. "Tell me why."
Micah backed toward the fire, her hands
tensedathersides. "You're so dumb, Karen,"
she murmured scornfully.
"No name-calling," Karen said sharply.
"Just explain, Micah. Just explain why."
"For Ethan, of course," Micah replied with
a sneer. She tossed herhairbehind her shoul-
der with one hand.
"Huh? Ethan?"
Micah let out a scornful laugh. "You mean
you didn't know about Ethan and me? You
didn't know that Ethan pl — anned to break up
"
with you so that he and I —
"But I thought it was Wendy " Karen
interrupted.
Micah shook her head. "He was never in-
terested in Wendy," she said softly. She
picked up the iron poker from its stand and
turned to jab at the fire. "Why do you think I
was spending so much time withJake, Karen?
So that I could see Ethan. Ethan and I met at

160 R.L. Stine
Jake's. You could—n't possibly think I was in-
teres—ted in Jake could you?"
"I I didn't know," Karen replied weakly.
"But you ruined it. You ruined everything,"
Micah said with emotion, poking harder at the
fire.
"Ruined it?"
"With those stupid phone calls you made
up," Micah said bitterly, her green eyes glow-
ing angrily in th — e darting orange firelight.
"But, Micah " Karen started.
"Shut up!" Micah screamed. "You ruined
everything. Whenyou startedtheroutine with
the phone calls, Ethan suddenly felt so sorry
for you, so guilty. He couldn't bring himselfto
break up wi — th you in your hour of need."
"I know " Karen said.
ButagainMicahcutheroff. "Shutup, I said!
Shut up, Karen!" Micah poked the fire fu-
riously, sendingupwaves ofsparklingcinders.
"When you started inventing those stupid
phone calls, IneversawEthan. Hewas spend-
ing all his time with you. Every night. Every
weekend. He felt so sorry for you."
Micah twisted herfeatures in disgust. "And
all the while, you were a total fraud, Karen.
A total fraud. You made up the calls to hold
on to Ethan. You ruined everything for me!
Everything!"

CallWaiting 161
—
"But, Micah youweremy friend!" Karen
protested breathlessly- "You were supposed
to be my friendl"
"I tried to warn you," Micah told her. "I
came to your house. I tried to warn you that
Ethan wasn't worth it." She shook her head
bitterly. "But of course you wouldn't listen to
me.
"And then you started making those awful
calls?" Karen cried.
"You're crazy, anyway," Micah said coldly.
"I figured a few realcalls would sendyou over
the edge. I wanted Ethan to see how crazy
you were. I wan — ted him to realize that he be-
me
longs with not you."
"No!" Karen cried, her entire body shud-
dering. "No! No! No!"
Her anger took over. She couldn't hold it
back any longer.
Karen opened her mouth in a loud cry of
fury.
Then, before she even realized what she
was doing, she was plunging across the room,
rushing at Micah, ready to hit her, to tear at
her, to hurt her.
Micah's eyes went wide. She turned from
the fire and raised the hot poker.
Karen tried to stop. But her anger was like

162 R.L. Stine
atidalwave, outofcontrol, pushingher, push-
ing her,—carrying her forward.
"No please!" Karen cried.
But it was too late.
"Ethan is mine now!" Micah screamed.
And she shoved the burning hot poker
through Karen's heart.

Chapter 28
Karendroppedtoherknees asthepainburned
through her chest.
It took her a short while to realize that she
hadn't been stabbed with the poker.
A hot cinder had leapt from the fire and
burned through her sweater.
Micah stood over her with the black iron
poker poised in one hand. In the bright fire-
light, her hair glowed as if aflame.
"Give up, Karen," she muttered, narrowing
her eyes in hatred.
"No!" Karen shrieked.
Her anger swept her forward again.
She drove blindly with her arms out-
stretchedandtackledMicaharoundtheknees.
Micah cried out as the poker sailed out of
her hand and bounced across the carpet.
Karen pulled her down, and the two girls
began wrestling furiously on the floor in front
163

164 R.L. Stine
of the fire. Uttering breathless cries, they
tugged and punched at each other.
This is crazy! This is crazy! Karen realized
as she struggled.
But she couldn't stop herself.
She cried out as Micah slipped out from
under her and, panting loudly, climbed to her
feet.
Karen reached to tackle her again. But Mi-
cah dodged away.
And then Karen saw Micah pick up a heavy
white lamp from an end table.
Karen struggled to roll out of the way.
But Micah was too quick.
With an anguished groan, Micah raised the
lamp above her, preparing to swing it down
on Karen's —head.
"Please " Karen managed to cry out,
raising her hands and shutting her eyes.
She waited for the lamp to crash down on
her. Waited for the pain.
—
When itdidn'tcome, Karenopenedhereyes
to see Ethan pulling the lamp from Micah's
hands.
Micah released the lamp without a struggle
and took a step back.
"Ethan!" Karen cried joyfully.
"I'm so glad you're here!" Micah declared,
throwing herself into Ethan's arms. She

Call Waiting 165
—
pointeddownatKaren. "She shewasgoing
to kiU m — e!"
"No !" Karen protested, struggling to
her feet.
"She's crazy!" Micah told Ethan, still point-
ing at Karen with one hand and holding on to
Ethan with the other. "Karen told me she
hears voices, Ethan. She said her voices or-
dered her to kill me! She's so crazy, Ethan!
Karen came — here to kill me! Because of her
voices! We we have to help her! We have
to get her to a hospital right away!"
"Okay," Ethan said softly.

Chapter 29
"Okay, Micah," Ethan repeated softly. "You
can stop lying to me."
"Huh?" Micah's mouth droppedopenin sur-
prise. Ethan pushed her away from him and
helped Karen to her feet. Then he slipped his
arm around Karen's waist, holding her tight.
"She's crazy!" Micah ins—isted weakly. "She
"
hears voices, Ethan. She
"Enough," Ethan said softly. "I heard
everything, Micah." He pointed to the cord-
less phone on the carpet. "I was on the phone
with you, remember? You didn't turn it off
when Karen came in. I heard your whole con-
versation. That's why I came running over."
Micah sighed. Her shoulders slumped. The
light seemed to fade fr — om her green eyes.
"But, Ethan, you and I ?"
Ethan shookhis head. "Micah, didn'tit ever
occur to you that I stayed with Karen through
166

Call Waiting 167
all this because I care about her? Sure, youVe
been after me to break up withher. And I was
temptedfor awhile. But I came to my senses.
I realized how much Karen means to me."
Micah let out an anguished sob of defeat.
Then she turned away, her features twisted
in sadness and dismay.
The room became silent except for the
crackling of the fire.
Karen leaned her head against Ethan's
shoulder. She felt his arm tighten around her
waist.
"Am I hearingvoices now?" she asked. "Or
did you really say that?"
"I'm hearing voices, telling us to leave," he
replied softly. Holding her close, he led her to
the door.

About the Author
R.L. Stine is the author of more than three
dozenmysteries for youngpeople, allofwhich
have beenbest-sellers. RecentScholastichor-
rortitles include TheBaby-SitterIII, TheDead
Girlfriend, and Halloween Night.
In addition, he is the author of two popular
monthly series: Goosebumps and FearStreet.
Bob lives in New York City with his wife,
Jane, and thirteen-year-old son, Matt.

v $.«..'£»
i,
K»lt otIOC
m
W»PP
ifP
BAJ44236-8 The Baby-sitter $3.50
3AJ44332-1 The Baby-sitter (( $3.50
Q BAJ46099-4 The Baby-sitter(II $3.50
Q BAJ45386-S Beach House $3.50
BAJ43278-8 Beach Party $3.50
3AJ43125-0 Blind Date $3.50
BAJ4327*6 The Boyfriend $3.50
Q BAJ44333-X TheGirlfriend $3.50
a BAJ45385-8 Hitand Run $3.25
BAJ46100-1 Hitchhiker $3.50
BAJ43280-X TheSnowman $3.50
BAJ43139-0 Twisted $3.50
Availablewheneveryoubuybooks,orusethisorderform.
ScholasticInc.,P.O.Box7502,2931EastMcCartyStreet,JeffersonCity,MO65102
PleasesendmethebooksIhavecheckedabove. I amenclosing$ (pleaseadd
$2.00tocovershippingandhandling). Sendcheckormoneyorder—nocashor
C.O.D.splease.
Name. .Birthdate_
Address.
City_ .State/Zip.
Pleaseallewfourtosixweekslordelivery. OffergoodintheU.S.only.Sony,mailordersarenotavailableto
residentsofCanada. Pricessubjecttochange RLS1S3

.
where colleae is a
D bar46014-5 The Silent Scream $3.50
D bar47136-8 The Roommate $3.50
D
bar46015-3 Deadly Attraction $3.50
I.vX;
a BAR45013-7 The Wish $3.50
I
D BAR47137-6 The Scream Team $3.50
D
BAR49452-X Guilty $3.50
d
I bar4769o-4 Pretty Please $3.50
D bar47703-x The Experiment $3.50
£'-': -.
&#i
Availablewhereveryoubuybooks,orusethisorderform.
ScholasticInc.,P.O. Box7502,2931 EastMcCartyStreet,
JeffersonCity,MO65102
Pleasesendmethebooks
I
havecheckedabove.
I
amenclosing$_
(pleas—eadd$2.00tocovershippingandhandling). Sendcheckormoney
order nocashorC.O.D.splease.
Name. .Birthdate.
Address
City .State/Zip.
Pleaseallowfourtosixweeksfordelivery. OffergoodintheU.S.only. Sorry,mallorders
arenotavailabletoresidentsofCanada. Pricessubjecttochange nh6&5

The next call may be her last
Someone wants to talk to Karen badly. Very
badly. Someone who has something very specialto
say.
Someone is callingKaren to say they care. To tell
hertheplans they've madejustforher. Someone
wants to reach out. Touch her. Killher.
PoorKaren. She's allalone this time.
And if Karen can'ttrace the killer
caller...
... Karen 's going to die.
ll78073"00350M SCHOLASTIC INC.
1
ISBN O-STQ-MTMaO-M