———
F id a sie e t i t Of —=— &
f
|
4 || =
“wf
is
PBPBAPAYOUORP CBOCEKLKHREISWBTS/AA HA\YEN D : ce iat
= 7 y
<<: * j —_ : 5 es
COLLECTOR’S EDITION+0
TEAK i %
THE EIRST SCREAM
THE LOUDEST SCREAM
_ THE LAST SCREAM

2.99 CAN COLLECTOR’S EDITIONS
: Do you dare to read them all?
ae ess
BN #1 The Beginning
Je #2 Nightmares
#3 Secrets
Pe #4 Dangerous Girls
#5 Evil Powers
#6 Summer Horror
#7 Deadly Games
é We, #8 Lessons in Terror
—— <,
———= = #9 Creatures of the Night
—=—
eee =, #10 Fear Park
Miers "
ep eT
[a> EAN Available from Archway Paperbacks
Published by Pocket Books

FEAR STREET:
FEAR PARK
The First Scream
Dierdre Bradley’s father just opened an
amusement park on Fear Street, and soon the
screams of joy will turn to screams of terror.
The Loudest Scream
Dierdre doesn’t know her new boyfriend,
Robin Fear, has a plan to destroy Fear Park.
A plan that may cost Dierdre her life!
The Last Scream
Robin has almost achieved his goal of
destroying Fear Park. But he doesn’t know
someone has been watching him, and waiting
for revenge.

Fear Street Books by R.L. Stine
THE NEW GIRL WRONG NUMBER 2
THE SURPRISE PARTY TRUTH OR DARE
THE OVERNIGHT DEAD END
MISSING FINAL GRADE
THE WRONG NUMBER SWITCHED
THE SLEEPWALKER COLLEGE WEEKEND
HAUNTED THE STEPSISTER 2
HALLOWEEN PARTY WHAT HOLLY HEARD
THE STEPSISTER THE FACE
SKi WEEKEND SECRET ADMIRER
THE FIRE GAME THE PERFECT DATE
LIGHTS OUT THE CONFESSION
THE SECRET BEDROOM THE BOY NEXT DOOR
THE KNIFE NIGHT GAMES
PROM QUEEN RUNAWAY
FIRST DATE KILLER’S KISS
THE BEST FRIEND ALL-NIGHT PARTY
THE CHEATER THE RICH GIRL
SUNBURN CAT
THE NEW BOY FEAR HALL: THE BEGINNING
THE DARE FEAR HALL: THE CONCLUSION
BAD DREAMS WHO KILLED THE HOMECOMING
DOUBLE DATE QUEEN?
THE THRILL CLUB INTO THE DARK
ONE EVIL SUMMER THE BEST FRIEND 2
THE MIND READER TRAPPED
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR’S EDITION #1: THE BEGINNING
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR’S EDITION #2: NIGHTMARES
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR’S EDITION #3: SECRETS
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR'S EDITION #4: DANGEROUS GIRLS
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR’S EDITION #5: EVIL POWERS
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR’S EDITION #6: SUMMER HORROR
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR’S EDITION #7: DEADLY GAMES
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR'S EDITION #8: LESSONS IN TERROR
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR’S EDITION #9: CREATURES OF THE NIGHT
FEAR STREET COLLECTOR’S EDITION #10: FEAR PARK

Fear Street Sagas The Fear Street Saga
ANEW FEAR THE BETRAYAL
HOUSE OF WHISPERS THE SECRET
FORBIDDEN SECRETS THE BURNING
THE SIGN OF FEAR
THE HIDDEN EVIL 99 Fear Street: The House of Evil
DAUGHTERS OF SILENCE THE FIRST HORROR
CHILDREN OF FEAR THE SECOND HORROR
DANCE OF DEATH THE THIRD HORROR
HEART OF THE HUNTER
THE AWAKENING EVIL
The Cataluna Chronicles
THE EVIL MOON
Fear Street Super Chillers
THE DARK SECRET
PARTY SUMMER
THE DEADLY FIRE
SILENT NIGHT
GOODNIGHT KISS
Fear Street Cheerleaders
BROKEN HEARTS
THE FIRST EVIL
SILENT NIGHT 2
THE SECOND EVIL
THE DEAD LIFEGUARD
THE THIRD EVIL
CHEERLEADERS: THE NEW EVIL
BAD MOONLIGHT
THE NEW YEAR’S PARTY Fear Park
GOODNIGHT KISS 2 THE FIRST SCREAM
SILENT NIGHT 3 THE LOUDEST SCREAM
HIGH TIDE THE LAST SCREAM
CHEERLEADERS: THE EVIL LIVES!
FEAR STREET SAGA COLLECTOR’S EDITION
SILENT NIGHT COLLECTOR’S EDITION
Available from ARCHWAY Paperbacks

hFye
For orders other than by individual consumers, Pocket Books
grants a discount on the purchase of 10 or more copies of
single titles for special markets or premium use. For further
details, please write to the Vice-President of Special Markets,
Pocket Books, 1633 Broadway, New York, NY 10019-6785
8th Floor.
For information on how individual consumers can place
orders, please write to Mail Order Department, Simon &
Schuster, Inc., 200 Old Tappan Road, Old Tappan, NJ 07675.

COLLECTOR’S
EDITION #10
FEAR PARK
A Parachute Book
AN ARCHWAY PAPERBACK
Published by POCKET BOOKS
New York London Toronto Sydney Tokyo Singapore

The sale of this book without its cover is unauthorized. If you purchased this book
without a cover, you should be aware that it was reported to the publisher as |
“unsold and destroyed.” Neither the author nor the publisher has received pay-
ment for the sale of this “stripped book.
This book consists of works of fiction. Names, characters, places
and incidents are products of the author’s imagination or are used
fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons,
living or dead, is entirely coincidental.
These titles were previously published individually.
An Archway Paperback published by
POCKET BOOKS, a division of Simon & Schuster Inc.
1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020
The First Scream copyright © 1996 by Parachute Press, Inc.
The Loudest Scream copyright © 1996 by Parachute Press, Inc.
The Last Scream copyright © 1996 by Parachute Press, Inc.
All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce
this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever.
For information address Pocket Books, 1230 Avenue
of the Americas, New York, NY 10020
ISBN: 0-671-02306-3
First Archway Paperback printing November 1998
Pees 8 7, 6.5 4 3.2.1
FEAR STREET is a registered trademark of
Parachute Press, Inc.
AN ARCHWAY PAPERBACK and colophon are
registered trademarks of Simon & Schuster Inc.
Cover illustration by Bill Schmidt
Printed in the U.S.A.
IL 7+

cE ae

Beak Sete ese SN >
rad ae ce —

cap le,
Mesias Fairwood brushed her long,
wavy, red hair off her shoulders and reached out to
open her locker door. “Oh no,” she murmured to
herself. She lowered her textbooks to the floor and
rubbed the dark stain on the starched cuff of her
white blouse.
How did I get this stain? she wondered. Is it ink?
She bent down, pulled out her pencil box, and
removed the fountain pen. The shiny blue Water-
man pen was a gift from her parents for her six-
teenth birthday. It was an expensive present. It cost
nearly four dollars. But it had leaked ever since
Meghan started using it.
She unscrewed the top and examined the silver
point. Yes. Leaking again. Her new white sailor
3

FEAR PARK
blouse ruined. I’ll have to tell Dad, Meghan thought,
returning the pen to her pencil box.
I hate to bother him about a pen. He’s been so
busy these days, so wrapped up in his new job. But
the pen will have to be returned to the store. _
She stood up and smoothed the front of the gray
wool skirt that came down nearly to her ankles. The
long tiled hall of Shadyside High School rang with
happy voices, laughter, and the banging of locker
doors. School had let out for the day.
Meghan turned to the end of the hall and saw two
blond cheerleaders on ladders stringing up a red-
and-white, hand-stencilled banner. She squinted to
read the words: GO, TIGERS! 1935 STATE BASEBALL
CHAMPS!
Well, not quite, Meghan thought, rubbing the
black stain on her cuff. They still have to beat
Waynesbridge to get into the tournament.
_ The left side of the banner fell to the floor. One of
the cheerleaders screamed, grabbed for it as it fell,
and nearly toppled off the ladder.
Some kids laughed.
The banner reminded Meghan of Richard Brad-
ley, her boyfriend. She searched the crowded hall for
him. He must have gone straight to baseball prac-
tice, she decided. That morning, Coach Swanson
had announced that Richard would pitch the
Waynesbridge game.
Was Richard nervous?
Not at all.

THE FIRST SCREAM
“Who else should pitch the big game?” he asked
Meghan, so handsome, like a Hollywood star, grin-
ning that toothy grin of his, his pale-blue eyes
twinkling.
Richard is a little conceited, Meghan realized. But
she wished she had his confidence.
She pictured him on the pitcher’s mound, his
curly, blond hair poking out from under his cap,
leaning forward, his face so intense, the muscles in
his arms bulging under the gray uniform shirt.
Meghan turned back to her locker. And realized
that someone was watching her. A boy with straight,
brown hair, solemn-faced, pale.
Robin Fear.
He blushed when Meghan raised her eyes to his
and smiled at him. “Hi, Robin,” she said cheerfully.
She didn’t really know him. He wasn’t part of her
crowd. She didn’t think he was part of any crowd. —
He always seemed to be by himself.
She knew that he lived in a big stone mansion on
Fear Street at the edge of the woods. The street had
been named after his uncle or grandfather or some-
thing. Meghan wasn’t sure.
Robin had the locker next to hers. She always said
hi to him. She thought he was kind of cute. She liked
his dark, thoughtful eyes. He seemed so serious all
the time.
Robin always blushed, pink circles forming on his
pale cheeks. It must be hard to be that shy, Meghan
thought.
5
—= _——

= * es
FEAR PARK
She pulled open her locker, and a pile of maga-
- zines tumbled out over the floor. Movie fan maga-
zines her friend Abigail had loaned her.
Robin bent to help her gather them up. “Do
you—do you like Clark Gable?” he stammered,
keeping his eyes on a magazine cover.
“Yes,” Meghan replied, a little surprised. Those
were the most words he had ever spoken to her. “I
saw him in China Seas Friday night. You know. With
Jean Harlow. Did you see it?”
Robin handed her the magazines. He shook his
head. “I don’t go to the movies very often.”
Down the hall, the banner fell again. Some laugh-
ing boys grabbed it away from the cheerleaders and
started to have a tug-of-war with it.
The cheerleaders screamed in protest.
Robin gazed down at the top magazine in
Meghan’s hands. “Bing Crosby,” he murmured,
recognizing the face.
“Do you like him?” Meghan asked. “Did you hear
his program on the radio last night?”
Robin shook his head sadly. “My dad doesn’t let
me listen to music on the radio. He only turns it on
to hear President Rooseveit’s talks.”
“How boring,” Meghan replied.
““How’s my girl?” a loud voice interrupted.
Meghan turned to see Richard grinning at her
from down the hall. He wore his baseball uniform
and had the maroon-and-gray cap pulled down over
his blond hair. His cleats thudded heavily on the
hard floor.
6

THE FIRST SCREAM
w~ ens
“Hi. I thought you were at practice,” Meghan
said.
His grin grew wider. “On my way. Do you want to
study tonight?”
Meghan laughed. “‘Study what?”
Richard’s eyes flashed. “I’ll think of something!”
he teased. Without warning, he bent down and
‘kissed her on the lips.
Meghan hated when he did that. It was as if he
owned her, as if he thought he could kiss her
whether she wanted to or not.
The kiss ended quickly. She raised her eyes to see
Richard glaring over her shoulder.
“What are you staring at?” He sneered at Robin
Fear.
Robin blushed a dark red. “I—” His voice
cracked.
Richard laughed. “You want to see smooching?
Go to the movies.”
“II wasn’t staring,” Robin choked out.
Richard stepped around Meghan. He reached out
a big hand and flipped Robin’s necktie out from
under his V-neck sweater. He wiped his hands, using
the necktie as a towel, grinning at Robin, challenging
him to do something about it.
“Stop it, Richard,” Meghan demanded, pulling
his arm away. “You’re not funny.”
“Sure I am,” Richard replied. “Catch you later,
Meghan.” He turned and clomped away, the cleats
thundering on the floor.
Meghan watched him make his way ont the hall.
Z

FEAR PARK
She found herself thinking about how she liked him
in some ways and didn’t like him in others.
Richard was one of the heroes of the school.
B.M.O.C. Big Man On Campus. That’s what the
school yearbook called him this year.
Meghan felt excited to be dating a guy as good-
looking and athletic and popular as Richard. The
two of them were like the king and queen of Shady-
side High. In fact, they were voted King and Queen
at the Spring Prom.
But now, as the school year drew to a close,
Meghan didn’t always enjoy being with Richard. She -
didn’t like some of his loud, rowdy friends. And she
wasn’t happy about the way he treated her. Drop-
ping by her house at all hours without calling first.
Grabbing her and kissing her in the halls at school.
Richard disappeared around the corner. Meghan
turned back to apologize to Robin.
“Oh!” She uttered a surprised cry when she saw
that he was gone.
Robin trudged home, kicking a stone along the
curb. He gazed up at the gray, overcast sky and
thought about how it matched his mood.
I just want to die, he thought.
He replayed the scene in the hall again and again
in his mind. Each time, he felt more embarrassed.
Meghan Fairwood was being nice to me, he told
himself. She wanted to talk to me. After all these
months of having side-by-side lockers, we were fi-
nally having a conversation.
8

THE FIRST SCREAM
And then I let that big palooka Richard make a
fool of me.
When he accused me of staring at them, I stood
there stammering like a dummy. And then I let him
use my tie for a towel and I didn’t say a word.
I didn’t fight him. I didn’t try to shove him away. I
didn’t even speak.
Why am I such a coward? Why am I so afraid?
Meghan didn’t laugh at me. But I know what she
was thinking. She probably felt sorry for me. Way to
go, Robin. You’ve got the prettiest girl in school
feeling sorry for you because eh re such a whiny,
little mouse.
He angrily kicked a clump of dirt onto the side-
walk. The sky darkened. He felt a cold raindrop on
his forehead.
Perfect, he thought bitterly. Now I'll get drenched.
He stepped off the curb onto Division Street—
and nearly walked into an oncoming streetcar.
The metal wheels scraped against the tracks. A
horn blasted.
Robin leapt back. The bright red streetcar rattled
past.
Shaking his head, Robin took a deep breath. Don’t
kill yourself, he scolded himself. He shifted his
bookbag onto the other shoulder and took another
deep breath, his heart pounding.
The near-accident shocked him from his angry
thoughts.
Richard Bradley picks on a lot of guys. It was no
big deal, he told himself.
9

FEAR PARK
He pictured Meghan once again. The way she
smiled at him when he handed her the magazines.
I think Meghan likes me. I think she likes me even
if | am a cowardly little mouse.
A few minutes later, he reached Fear Street. He
turned and made his way on the grass along the side
of the road.
Simon Fear’s burned-out mansion rose up on the
next block. The mansion had been beautiful before
the fire destroyed it. That’s what people said. Now,
as Robin passed by, it stood black as a cinder, the
roof caved in, gaping holes where the windows had
been, still smelling of smoke. A stern, practical man,
Nicholas had built his house out of stone, unlike
Simon, his doomed great-great-grandfather.
“No fire will drive me away,” Nicholas once told
Robin. “I have reclaimed all of the Fear property.
And I intend to hold on to it forever.”
Robin picked up his pace when his house came
into view. The broad shadow of the house fell over
the lawn. Robin felt a chill as he stepped into it. The
front windows were always curtained, shutting out
the world.
Dad likes his privacy, Robin thought.
A crew of gardeners in work shirts and overalls
were trimming the long hedge at the side of the
sweeping front yard. One of the men tilted a thermos
to his mouth and drank, narrowing his eyes at
Robin.
Robin entered through a side door. The massive,
double front doors were seldom used. Tugging his
10

ae THE FIRST SCREAM
bookbag off his shoulder, he made his way through a
narrow pantry. He crossed the big kitchen with its
sparkling counters and polished floor and stepped
into the front hall.
“Anyone home?” Robin’s voice echoed off the
marble floor.
Silence. The two maids had quit earlier in the
week. Robin could never figure out why the servants
never stayed for long. Was it because the house was
so big and cold? Or was it because of the rumors
about all the strange things that happened on Fear
Street?
“Dad? Are you home?”
He hoped his father had gone out. He didn’t feel
like talking. He felt like shutting himself up in his
room and thinking about Meghan Fairwood.
A noise from the library made Robin jump.
Was that music? he wondered. Some kind of
chanting?
He crossed the hall, his shoes clicking on the
marble floor.
Robin pulled open the library doors, peered into
the room—and cried out.
“Oh no!”
11

cpaPle,
eee slapped a hand over his mouth
and backed out of the doorway. Thick snakes of
purple smoke curled through the room. And in the
middle of the strange, swirling smoke, Robin saw his
father—floating in the air.
Floating on his back. Hands crossed over his
chest.
Floating in the purple smoke.
His eyes closed. The tails of his suit jacket droop-
ing beneath him. His legs stretched straight out,
black shoes pointing up.
Floating, floating. Floating so comfortably, so
peacefully, as if on a cushion of air.
Chanting softly to himself.
12

THE FIRST SCREAM
Did he see me? Robin wondered, not daring to
peer in again. Did he hear me cry out?
Robin pressed his back against the wall and
waited for his breathing to return to normal.
Should I step back in there and ask him what he’s
doing?
No. Absolutely not.
Robin didn’t really need to ask. He knew that his
father’s library was filled with books on sorcery and
the occult, books on dark magic and the dark arts.
Robin had spent many hours poring through the
books when his father was away. Ancient books,
many of them yellowed and crumbling. Filled with
strange drawings and diagrams that Robin struggled
to make out. Chants and spells and long histories,
some in languages Robin could barely read.
Did my mother read these books too? Robin often
wondered.
He barely remembered his mother. She died when
he was four. Her body was buried along with other
Fears in the little cemetery cleared out from the
woods the Fear family owned.
Sometimes Robin visited the grave with his father.
Nicholas Fear would always stare down at the
smooth white stone without speaking, his face emo-
tionless.
Robin often wondered how different his life would
be if his mother had lived. Would he still be this shy,
this awkward—this lonely?
Robin heard his father’s soft chanting from the
Lie

FEAR PARK —
library. Still pressed against the wall, he shuddered.
He couldn’t force back his fear. Why was his father
floating like that in the swirling purple smoke? What
other powers did Nicholas Fear have?
These were questions Robin knew he could never
ask him. Robin’s dad was a cold, quiet man. Even
when Nicholas tried to be warm and fatherly to
Robin, Robin always felt at a distance from him.
Robin heard the front doorbell ring.
Then he heard a soft thud in the library. His father
must have lowered himself to his feet.
He heard his dad cough. Because of the thick
swirls of purple smoke? Then the doorbell chimed
again.
Robin stepped away from the wall as his father
strode quickly out of the library. Nicholas Fear was
six feet tall and always stood stiff and straight, even
when moving fast. He was needle thin, red-faced,
and nearly bald, even though he was only thirty-four
years old. His rimless eyeglasses made his brown
eyes flash.
He turned to Robin. “When did you get home?”
he demanded in his high, shrill voice.
“Just now,” Robin replied, clearing his throat. He
followed his father toward the front door. “I stayed a
little late at school and—”
“The servants have quit,” Nicholas interrupted.
“Please answer the door for me.” He straightened
his gray wool suit jacket. He always wore a suit, even
on weekends, even on vacations.
14

THE FIRST SCREAM
“Who is here?” Robin asked, hurrying to keep up
with his father. Robin’s father received few visitors
at the house.
“['m expecting some businessmen. From town,”
Nicholas replied. He tightened the knot in his navy
blue necktie: “I have no idea what they want.” He
scowled. ““Whatever it is, I’m not interested.”
The doorbell rang again. Robin could hear men’s
voices outside. He stepped up to the double front
doors.
Nicholas frowned. He scratched his red, bald
head. “Show them into the sitting room, okay,
Robin?”
“Sure, Dad.”
Robin pulled open the heavy oak door. He saw
four men at the doorway, all in brown business suits.
They all removed their hats and lowered them to
their sides.
One of the men stepped forward, smiling at Rob-
in. He was a big, brawny man, nearly bursting out of
his suit jacket. He had thick, curly, blond hair and
pale-blue eyes that crinkled at the corners.
He stuck out a big, fleshy hand and Robin shook
it. “Hello, young fella. ’'m Jack Bradley. We have an
appointment with Nicholas Fear.”
“Th-that’s my father,” Robin said awkwardly.
“I’m Robin Fear.” He stepped back so the men
could enter.
“Do you go to Shadyside High?” Mr. Bradley
asked. His blue eyes scanned the vast front hallway.
15

FEAR PARK
“Yes, sir. I’m a junior,” Robin told him.
“So is my son,” Mr. Bradley replied, his eyes on
the expensive British wallpaper. “Richard. Do you
know Richard Bradley?”
Richard is his son? Robin thought. The embar-
rassing scene with Meghan played once again in
Robin’s mind. Richard and Meghan. Richard Brad-
ley and. Meghan.
“Yes, I know Richard,” Robin said, keeping his
voice flat, emotionless.
“Funny. He’s never mentioned you,” Mr. Bradley
said.
Robin didn’t reply. He led the four men into the
sitting room. Nicholas Fear stood stiffly behind his
enormous mahogany desk. He eyed the men suspi-
ciously through his rimless glasses.
They nodded to Robin’s father, each holding his
hat in one hand in front of him. Jack Bradley
introduced himself and then the other three.
Robin watched from the doorway. His father
made no move to shake hands with the men. He
stood stiffly behind his large desk chair, as if using it
as a shield.
Dad hasn’t asked me to leave, Robin told himself.
So maybe [ll stay and see what this visit is about. He
sank back against the door frame, just out of his
father’s sight.
““May we be seated?” Mr. Bradley asked, motion-
ing to the black leather chairs that faced the desk.
“If you wish,” Nicholas Fear replied coldly.
16

THE FIRST SCREAM
The four men sat down. They held their hats in
their laps. Robin’s father remained standing. His
pale hands clenched and unclenched the back of his
desk chair in noticeable spasms.
“It’s certainly a beautiful day,” Mr. Bradley said,
glancing at the sunlight flooding in from the tall
window. “We’ve been having a lovely spring. The
tulips in my garden—”
“May I ask the purpose of your visit?” Robin’s
father interrupted.
Robin swallowed hard. Why was his father being
so rude to this man?
From the doorway, Robin could see the back of
Mr. Bradley’s neck go red. The man cleared his
throat. ““We have come to make a request on behalf
of the town of Shadyside,” he said formally.
Nicholas nodded. He stared coldly at Mr. Bradley,
waiting for him to continue.
Mr. Bradley cleared his throat again. “A few
weeks ago, the four of us traveled to an amusement
park in New York City called Coney Island.”
“How pleasant for you,” Robin’s dad interrupted
again. A sneer crossed his face for a second. “A
vacation?”
The four men laughed. Polite, nervous laughter.
Nicholas frowned at them. He pulled out the tall
leather desk chair and sat down.
“We believe that an amusement park like Coney
Island is just what Shadyside needs,” Mr. Bradley
continued. “‘As you know, Mr. Fear, this town was
17

FEAR PARK —
hit hard by the stock market crash six years ago. We
still haven’t recovered. We still have many men out
of work. The town has so little income.”
Nicholas impatiently waved a hand to signal Mr.
Bradley to stop. ““Why have you come to me? I know
nothing about amusement parks. Did you come to
sell me a ticket to the Ferris wheel?”
This time, the men didn’t laugh at Nicholas’s
sarcasm.
*“We’ve come to ask you to give the town a section
of the woods behind Fear Street,”’ Mr. Bradley said,
leaning forward, gazing intently at Robin’s father.
“Excuse me?” Nicholas’s face reddened even
more. He narrowed his tiny, dark eyes at Mr.
Bradley.
““We have received money to build a park,” Mr.
Bradley told him, speaking softly, so softly Robin
could barely hear him from the doorway. ““We would
like to clear part of the woods and build the park
there. It would mean so many jobs for people. And it
would bring hundreds and hundreds of tourists to
Shadyside. With your permission—”
“You don’t have it!” Nicholas snapped. He
jumped to his feet.
Robin was startled by how tall his father suddenly
appeared, tall and angry. Nicholas grabbed a silver
letter opener off the desk and gripped it like a
dagger. His face turned a deep scarlet.
“But, Mr. Fear—” Jack Bradley started to protest.
“The woods belong to the Fear family,” Nicholas
said through gritted teeth. “They will always belong
18

THE FIRST SCREAM
to the Fear family, Mr. Bradley. I must ask you to
drop your plans. And I must ask you to stay away
from the Fear Street Woods, stay away from all of my
property.”
Nicholas raised the letter opener. He motioned to
the door with it. “Good day, gentlemen.”
Mr. Bradley stood up. The others followed. But
they made no move toward the door.
“Mr. Fear, I must ask you to think about your
answer,” Jack Bradley insisted. “I will send over the
plans for the park tomorrow. Perhaps if you study
ems os
“Good day, gentlemen,” Nicholas repeated,
clenching his jaw. Robin could see the veins in his
forehead throb.
““We will not take no for an answer,” Mr. Bradley
said sternly. “Please think about this. If you say
no—”
Mr. Bradley stopped short. He staggered forward
clumsily—and appeared to choke. He let out a sharp
gasp and grabbed his throat.
Robin uttered a low cry of surprise as the other
three men clutched their throats too. They all strug-
gled to breathe, uttering loud wheezing sounds,
twisting their heads back, their eyes wide in sudden
terror.
Robin raised his eyes to his father. Nicholas stood
emotionless, no expression at all on his face. He had
the silver letter opener raised in front of him. Behind
the rimless glasses, his eyes were shut.
“H-help—!” Mr. Bradley managed to choke out.
+9

FEAR PARK —
His eyes bulged. His face turned purple. He gripped
his throat with both hands, his mouth gaping open.
“Can't... breathe...” one of the others whis-
pered. He sank to his knees on the carpet.
A shudder of fright swept over Robin. He stum-
bled into the room.
What’s happening? he wondered.
What is wrong with them?
Is my dad doing this to them?
Is he going to kill them?
*“Dad—stop it!” Robin shrieked.
20

cnaPp le,
|e ar saw his father’s expression turn
to surprise.
The letter opener fell from his hand and bounced
on the thick carpet.
The four men sucked in deep breaths.
*“Robin—I didn’t see you there,” Nicholas said.
He made his way to the man on his knees and
started to help him up. “Are you okay?” Nicholas
asked, suddenly concerned.
Nicholas turned to Mr. Bradley. “Are you feeling
okay? Can I get you a glass of water?” Nicholas kept
glancing up tensely at Robin.
Mr. Bradley, breathing normally now, rubbed his
throat. “I—I don’t know what happened,” he stam-
mered. “It suddenly felt as if my throat closed up.”
21

FEAR PARK
“The strangest thing,” one of the others said,
picking up his hat from the floor. “Mine too. I
couldn’t breathe.”
“As if someone tied a knot in my windpipe,”
another one murmured.
Nicholas shook his head sympathetically. “TI felt
it, too,” he told them. “Perhaps something in the
i) ede
Robin studied his father. Is he lying? Robin won-
dered. I didn’t see him choking. I saw him standing
there calmly with his eyes closed.
“I shall have to have this room checked,” Nicholas
told them. “It has been shut up for too long. Perhaps
the windows should be left open.”
The men straightened their suit jackets. Shaking
their heads, still rubbing their throats, they followed
Nicholas to the door. Robin watched their grim
expressions as they nodded goodbye to his dad.
“T will not change my mind,” Nicholas called after
them. “Your amusement park must go somewhere
else. It will never be built on Fear property. Never.”
He slammed the door, muttered something to
himself, and took a deep breath. Then he turned to
Robin. “Must be something in the air,” he mur-
mured, a strange smile crossing his face. ““Come help
me open the windows, son.”
Robin clicked off the radio. The yellow dial light
faded out slowly. A Saturday afternoon. He had
been half listening to a baseball game. The Washing-
ton Senators were losing to the St. Louis Browns.
22

THE FIRST SCREAM
But Robin felt too restless to concentrate on
baseball.
He felt restless. And bored. And lonely.
He gazed at the textbooks piled on his desk across
the room. And thought about writing his history
assignment. A sweet-smelling breeze fluttered the
curtains over his bedroom window.
I'll go out for a walk instead, he decided.
Walking in the woods behind his house had be-
come his favorite way to pass the time. As he made
his way through the trees and thick undergrowth,
Robin would invent conversations in his mind.
Conversations with kids he liked at school, kids he
wished were his friends.
He made his way downstairs—and nearly collided
with his father. “Where are you going in such a
hurry?” Nicholas demanded, eyeing Robin sternly.
“Just for a walk. In the woods,” Robin replied.
“You spend a lot of time there,” his father said,
studying him.
Robin felt his face grow hot. “I like it there.”
“Me too,” Nicholas said, a smile breaking out on
his face. “Maybe I'll join you for a bit.”
They went out the servants’ door in back and
crossed the broad back lawn to where the trees
began. It had rained the night before, leaving the
ground soft and moist. They stepped around spar-
kling pools of water, inhaling the spring-fresh air.
Nicholas Fear was always so solemn, so stern. But
Robin saw his father change on the few occasions
they walked together in the woods. His eyes grew
23

FEAR PARK
wide with delight. The unfurling of fresh spring
leaves on the trees, the bright, blossoming flowers
made Nicholas smile.
“This is all ours,”’ he told Robin, in a warm voice
Robin seldom heard.
They walked in silence for a long while, listening
to the soft wind shake the trees.
Robin had a lot on his mind. He couldn’t decide
whether or not to break the silence. His father was a
difficult man to talk to, even when he was relaxed
and enjoying himself.
Finally, Robin decided to say something. He took
a deep breath. “Uh... Dad? I ...-well... Did
you have to say no to those men?”
Nicholas stopped walking. He wore a light-gray
wool sweater over a stiff-collared white shirt and a
wide, navy necktie. Robin wondered why he so
seldom appeared without a necktie.
Nicholas narrowed his eyes at Robin, waiting for
him to continue.
Robin took another breath. His heart pounded.
“It’s hard to make friends, that’s all,” he blurted out.
“Very hard. This will make it worse.” He felt better,
just getting the words out.
Nicholas swiped a gnat off his bald head. His face
reddened even more than usual. He scowled. ‘Most
people in this town aren’t worthy to be your friend,”
he muttered. He started walking again.
Robin hurried to catch up. “Huh? I don’t under-
stand, Dad.”
“You're a Fear,” Nicholas told him gruffly. “You
24

_ THE FIRST SCREAM
must remember that, Robin. The Fear family stands
apart in this town.” -
Robin gazed thoughtfully at his father. “Stands
apart?” ;
“We always have,” Nicholas replied. ““We’re not
like the others. That’s why my great-great grandfa-
ther Simon built his mansion out here in the woods,
so far from town. That’s why he bought this proper-
ty, these woods. And that’s why I built here, too.”
“Because we’re different?” Robin demanded, un-
able to hide his confusion.
Nicholas nodded.
“Do you mean we're better than the others?”
Robin asked.
“Just different,” Nicholas replied. His smile had
faded. He gazed into the distance thoughtfully.
A crackling of twigs and leaves made them both
jump. Robin turned toward the sound. He peered
through the low, leafy tree limbs—and saw a brown
overcoat. And then a dark hat.
A man. Moving quickly through the woods.
~ “Who is there?” Nicholas called sternly. Angrily.
Robin let out a gasp when he recognized the man.
Jack Bradley. Carrying a long rifle.
“Who is there?” Nicholas repeated.
Startled by the angry shout, Mr. Bradley turned,
spotted Robin through the trees, raised the rifle, and
aimed it at him.
25

onaPle,
“N o!”
Robin cried out. Swung his hands over his face as
if to shield himself. Waited for the crack of the rifle.
Instead he heard footsteps.
Lowering his hands, he saw the tense expression
on Mr. Bradley’s face. Then he saw that the man
didn’t carry a rifle.
What was it? Robin stared hard. Mr. Bradley
carried some sort of ruler, a surveying tool.
“You startled me, Mr. Fear,” Mr. Bradley said,
uttering a nervous laugh. His blue eyes caught the
sunlight. He lowered the wooden measuring tool.
Nicholas snorted. He stared coldly through his
glasses, his face turning scarlet. ““Why are you tres-
26

THE FIRST SCREAM
| passing here, Mr. Bradley?” he asked in a shrill, ight
' voice.
Bradley frowned. “Trespassing? I was surveying
| this lot, sir. I thought you received word that—”
“I thought I told you clearly,” Nicholas inter-
rupted. “I will not have any part of my woods
| destroyed.”
Robin took a step back. He felt his stomach knot,
his throat go dry.
Are they going to fight? he wondered.
Dad is taller. But Mr. Bradley is so big and brawny
and muscular.
He could see the veins throbbing at his father’s
temple.
They won’t fight, Robin assured himself. They’re
both gentlemen. They won’t let this get out of
control.
Nicholas stepped closer to Mr. Bradley, as if
challenging him. “I will not have an amusement
park in my woods,” he said through gritted teeth.
Mr. Bradley didn’t back up. “Perhaps the town
council has other ideas,”’ he said forcefully.
“What do you mean?” Nicholas demanded. He
leaned forward, practically shouting the words in
Mr. Bradley’s face.
Robin took another step back. Was his father
really planning to fight the man? Robin had seen his
father’s temper rage. But he had never known him to
fight.
“My partners and I have petitioned the town
Zt

~
FEAR PARK
council,” Mr. Bradley announced, keeping his eyes
firmly on Robin’s father. ““We want part of the
woods to be reclaimed by the town.”
Robin saw the veins throb even harder at Nicho-
las’s temples. He saw his father’s hands clench into
tight fists.
“The woods here should be enjoyed by everyone,”
Mr. Bradley continued, clutching his wooden mea-
suring tool as if it were a rifle. “One man shouldn’t
be able to keep all this land for himself.” He
shrugged his broad shoulders. “Besides, the records
aren’t clear. You may not legally own the property
after all.” .
Nicholas’s mouth dropped open. His face turned
as red as a tomato.
Robin held his breath and waited for the explo-
sion.
Waited for the curses. The rage. The swinging
fists.
But his father surprised him.
The two men glared at each other, nearly nose to
nose, as if having a staring contest. Neither of them
blinked.
Then Nicholas said softly, almost in a whisper,
“We'll see.”
That’s all. Two whispered words.
“We'll see.””
Then he spun around and walked away, heading
back toward the house, walking erect, his long, thin
legs taking big strides.
Robin stood frozen in his spot, still holding his
28

THE FIRST SCREAM
| breath, watching his father move so quickly away.
‘ Nicholas never glanced back.
Jack Bradley glanced at Robin, as if seeing him for
| the first time. Then, without a word, he turned and
|disappeared into the trees, his brown overcoat
| Swinging like a cape behind him.
Robin shut his eyes and waited for his heartbeat to
Slow to normal. Dad will never let them take his
woods away, he thought.
Never.
He will find a way to keep the town council from
obeying Mr. Bradley’s wishes.
- Grateful that the encounter between the two men
had been so short, that no fight had broken out,
Robin began to feel better. He took a deep breath.
The air smelled sweet and fresh.
I need a long, long walk, he decided. He turned
and made his way through the woods to a small
trickle of a stream. Flecks of sunlight danced over
the ground at his feet. The only sounds he could hear
were the soft plop of his shoes on the mud and the
gentle lapping of the water.
He glanced around. Where are the birds? he
wondered. Why are there no birds in these woods?
It’s springtime. Shouldn’t they be busily building
their nests and hatching their babies?
A cluster of purple and blue wildflowers bobbed in
the soft breeze. Robin searched for butterflies. He
couldn’t see any. No white moths of spring. No
insects or birds or animals of any kind.
29

FEAR PARK
How strange, he thought. I’ve spent so many hours
walking in these woods. But I never noticed that
until now.
He followed the gentle curve of the stream
through the birch and cedar trees, his shoes sinking
into the soft ground.
A cough made him stop. And hold his breath.
He heard another cough. The crackle of leaves
under someone’s feet.
I’m not alone, he realized.
Who else is back here?
Jack Bradley? Is he surveying this part of the
woods, too?
He slid behind a wide, white trunk. And peered
out.
At the edge of the stream, he saw the flash of
copper-colored hair.
A girl.
She turned, squinting into the sunlight as if
searching for someone.
Meghan!
Robin’s heart began to pound.
Is she looking for me?
30

enap le,
ha ae uttered a cry of surprise when
she saw the figure step out from behind a tree.
Squinting into the sun, she didn’t recognize him at
first.
‘Then the straight brown hair, the dark, solemn
eyes, the burning, red cheeks came into focus. “Rob-
in!” she called.
What is he doing here? she wondered, watching
him approach. How did he find my secret place? She
searched the trees to see if he was alone.
He smiled at her. A shy, awkward smile.
She smiled back. Realized—suddemly, sur-
prisingly—that she liked him.
“Hi,” Robin said, stepping up to the edge of the
31

FEAR PARK
stream. She saw mud caked over his brown leather
shoes. .
“Hi,” she echoed, brushing back her hair. She
straightened one shoulder strap of the green jumper
she wore over a pale lemon-colored blouse. “What
are you doing here, Robin?”
He pointed behind him. “Just walking.”
Meghan felt the warm sunlight on her face. The
stream sparkled as the light danced over it. “It’s
such a beautiful day,” she said. “Do you walk in the
woods often?”
Robin nodded. “It cheers me up.” The red circles
on his cheeks darkened.
Meghan narrowed her eyes at him. “You're...
unhappy?”
He shook his head. A shock of dark hair tumbled
over his forehead. “No. I mean . . . I just like it.” He
avoided her gaze.
He’s so cute, Meghan thought.
She plucked up a tiny blue wildflower and sniffed
it. “The woods cheer me up, too,” she told him. “I
like this little stream. The sound it makes. Like
tinkling bells.”
He nodded again. He opened his mouth to say
something. Then changed his mind.
I wish he wasn’t so tongue-tied, Meghan thought.
He’s just so shy. He acts as if he’s never talked to a
girl before.
She raised her eyes over Robin’s shoulder. Was
that someone stepping out of the trees?
No. A gust of wind shook the fresh spring leaves.
32

THE FIRST SCREAM
“Does the stream lead into the lake?” Meghan
asked Robin. She bit her bottom lip. What a stupid
question, she thought. He must think I’m neal
boring.
Why am I suddenly tongue-tied too?
Robin smiled at her. “Yes. There are a whole
bunch of little streams that feed into the lake. I think
I’ve followed them all.”
He shoved his hands into the pockets of his brown
trousers. “It is my backyard, after all,’ he added,
brushing the hair from his forehead.
His backyard, Meghan thought. His woods.
She had almost forgotten that Robin’s father
owned these woods. Almost forgotten Richard’s
story about how Nicholas Fear was trying to keep his
father from claiming part of the woods for the town.
Almost forgotten that Robin was a Fear.
Meghan thought about the terrifying stories she
had been told about the Fear family. She had grown
up in New Jersey. Her family had moved to Shady-
side six years ago.
Meghan had been ten and didn’t want to leave her
friends. But her father had lost his job a few weeks
after the stock market crash of 1929. The family had
no choice but to move in with their Shadyside
cousins and start life all over again.
And as soon as Meghan arrived, she began hearing
the whispered stories about Simon Fear and his
family. How they practiced the dark arts and evil
sorcery. How neighbors heard strange cries and
howls in the night.
33

FEAR PARK
Stories about people venturing into the woods and ©
never returning. Stories about how no birds would
settle in the woods because of the evil there.
Of course, the stories weren’t true, Meghan told
herself.
Every town has its legends about some evil place.
Gazing at Robin, so sweet, so shy, Meghan knew
the stories about his family couldn’t be true.
“Am... trespassing?” she asked with a smile.
The question appeared to surprise him. “I guess,”
he replied finally. Then he added, “I’m glad.” And
blushed.
““Maybe your father wouldn’t approve of me walk-
ing in his precious woods,” Meghan teased.
Robin’s expression turned serious. “I—I’m not
like my father,” he told her. “You’ve probably heard
stories about my family. ’'m not like them.”
She nodded. She didn’t know how to reply to that.
She twisted a lock of red hair between her fingers.
“Would you...uh...” He hesitated, his dark
eyes on the ground. Then he got his question out:
“Would you like to walk to the lake?”
“No. I—” She started to reply. But a sharp stab of
pain made her raise her hand to her eye. “Oh!” She
uttered a startled cry.
““‘What’s wrong?” he demanded.
“Something flew in my eye,” she told him. She
rubbed the burning spot, but the pain grew more
intense. “Ow!” Tears flowed from the eye, down her
cheek.
34

THE FIRST SCREAM
“Let me see,” Robin said. “Must be a gnat or a
mosquito.”
Squinting with her good eye, she saw him step
forward, frowning with concern. He placed a warm
hand on the side of her face. Gently, he lifted the
eyelid and examined it, bringing his face close to
hers.
“Tt’s just a speck of dust,” he announced.
His finger touched her eye gently. “There. I’ve got
it out.”
She blinked several times. The eye still burned.
Tears rolled down her cheek.
“T got it out. But you should wash it with some
cold water,” Robin said. “Do you want to come to
the house?”
EO. Wel ng
He still had his hand on her face.
Once again, she realized how much she liked him.
This always happens to me, she thought. I’m going
out with one guy—and I meet another guy that I
really like, too.
Blinking the tears away, she gazed once again over
his shoulder.
And saw a figure burst out of the woods and come
running toward them.
“No!” she managed to cry—before the intruder
grabbed Robin and roughly pulled him away.
“No! Stop!”
35

cap te,
Basis felt strong hands grab his shoul-
ders. Felt himself being heaved aside before he could
even cry out.
He stumbled, but managed to stay on his feet.
“Hey!” Finally finding his voice, he spun around.
And stared at Richard Bradley, his face an angry
red beneath his curly, blond hair. Hands tensed in
fists at his side. Blue eyes wild. Body arched, like a
cat with its back up.
Ready for a fight.
“Richard—stop!” Meghan’s voice cut shrilly into
Robin’s ears. “Leave him alone!”
Robin felt his fear turn to anger. ““Hey, Bradley—
what’s the big idea?”
36

THE FIRST SCREAM
Richard turned from Meghan to Robin. “You
were kissing my girl,” he accused.
“He was not!” Meghan cried.
Robin took a deep breath. He studied Richard’s
angry face.
Am I going to have to fight him? Robin wondered.
Can I fight him? I haven’t been in a fight since
kindergarten.
Richard stared hard at Robin. His lips curled into
a sneer. He raised his fists, challenging Robin. “I saw
you,” he insisted, breathing hard. “I saw you kiss
her.”
“No—” Robin protested. His voice cracked.
“He was helping me!” Meghan cried shrilly.
“What is wrong with you, Richard?”
She stepped between the two boys, facing Richard,
and thrust out both arms as if to shield Robin. “I
had something in my eye, and he was helping me get
it out,” she told him.
Richard’s scowl didn’t relax, but he lowered his
fists. He turned to stare at Meghan and studied her
face, trying to see if she told the truth.
“Tt’s true,” Robin told him. He wished his heart
wouldn’t pound so loudly, nearly muffling his voice.
“J__I was just helping her. She couldn’t get the
speck from her eye.”
Richard brushed a leaf off the pocket of his red-
and-brown flannel sport shirt. He tucked a shirt flap
into his denim jeans, keeping his eyes narrowed on
Robin the whole time.
37

FEAR PARK
Then, to Robin’s surprise, Richard’s expression
softened. And he laughed.
“Richard... what's so funny?” Meghan de-
manded.
He laughed harder.
She stepped forward and shook his big shoulder.
“Stop it! Why are you laughing?”
“The looks on your faces,” Richard replied
through his laughter. He grinned at Robin. “I was
just kidding. I wasn’t serious.”
_ Meghan’s mouth dropped open. “Huh?”
Richard slapped Robin on the back. “I knew you
weren’t kissing her. I just wanted to see your reac-
tion.”” He shook his head. “You went white! You
really did.” He laughed some more, a high, shrill
horse whinny of a laugh.
“Richard, it wasn’t funny,” Meghan said angrily.
“Sure it was,” Richard insisted, grinning. He
turned back to Robin and shook his big fist. “Did
you really think I was going to let you have it?”
“T don’t know,” Robin replied.
Richard was serious, Robin decided. Now he’s
just covering up. He’s pretending it was all a joke
because he sees that Meghan is upset with him.
At least he didn’t beat me up in front of Meghan.
It’s time for me to leave, Robin decided. “I have to
get home,” he said. “See you at school on Monday.”
“Bye, Robin,” Meghan said. “See you Monday.”
Robin turned and started to walk past them. He
didn’t see Richard stretch out his foot until it was
too late.
38

THE FIRST SCREAM
“Hey!” Robin uttered a cry as he tripped over
Richard’s outstretched shoe. He sailed headfirst into
the mud, landing hard on his elbows and knees.
Richard tossed his head back in another horse
laugh.
Robin gazed up in time to see Meghan flash
Richard a furious scowl. Then she bent and helped
Robin to his feet.
“I think he’s jealous,” she whispered. Her lips
brushed Robin’s ear. A chill tingled the back of his
neck.
Does she like me? he wondered. He brushed
himself off. Pushed his hair back from his forehead.
“See you in school,” Richard called in a mocking
voice. “But not if I see you first!” Another horse
whinny.
Robin ignored him and stomped away. Stepping
into a thick tangle of trees, he stopped. And glanced
back.
Through the swaying leaves, he could see them
kissing. Richard had his arms wrapped around
Meghan so that she seemed to disappear behind the
big flannel shirt. Her face was tilted up to his, her
red hair tumbling down over his sleeve.
Robin sighed, unable to force down his jealous
feelings.
I think she likes me, he repeated to himself. But
how can she like me and a big jerk like Richard?
He watched their kiss end. Richard kept his arms
around Meghan. “How come I keep seeing you with
Robin Fear?” Richard asked her.
39

FEAR PARK
Robin moved forward, straining to hear her an-
swer. But a gust of wind made the leaves rustle,
drowning out her words.
“Well, how did he find our meeting place?” Rich-
ard demanded.
“Tt was an accident,” Meghan replied. “He was
taking a walk. He didn’t know it was our secret
place.”
Robin realized he had been holding his breath.
Eavesdropping on their private conversation was
more exciting than he could imagine.
But does she like me? he asked himself again. And
again.
Does she like me?
“But why do you talk to that guy?” Robin heard
Richard ask.
Meghan’s answer stung Robin like a snakebite.
“He seems so lonely,” he heard her say. “I just feel
sorry for him.”
Robin ran home, ran through the tangle of trees
and shrubs, jumping over rocks and fallen tree
limbs, the woods a green-brown blur.
All a blur.
As if his eyes were covered with tears.
As if the world were a hazy, fuzzy place. All dark
images. Not solid at all. A hazy, fuzzy place you
could run through and not feel a thing.
Not feel a thing.
Not feel upset. Or angry.
Or disappointed.
40

THE FIRST SCREAM
Or. . . heartbroken.
Not feel anything at all.
A blur. That led Robin into the back of the house.
Through the kitchen. Toward the front stairs that
would take him to his room. Hoping not to see his
father. Hoping to get up to his room where he could
think. Where he could replay the afternoon, the
scene with Meghan and Richard, replay it again and
again.
Which is what he always did when he was angry or
upset.
Lie on his stomach in bed, face buried in his
pillow and torture himself, torture himself, replay-
ing the pain again and again.
Only Robin didn’t make it up to his room.
He stopped at the bottom of the stairs. Glanced
into the living room.
The room in sharp detail now. His vision no
longer a blur.
Everything as sharp as could be.
Robin lurched into the living room.
Dropped down onto his knees beside his father.
His father. On his back. Eyes staring blankly up at
the pink crystal chandelier.
His father. Robin’s father. Dead on the living-
room floor.
41

cneP ley,
: *[)) ae
Robin grabbed his father by the shoulders of his
suit jacket and shook him hard.
“Dad! Dad! Please!”
Was he breathing?
Robin pressed a trembling hand over Nicholas’s
nose and mouth.
No. Not breathing.
Dead. Dead on the living-room floor.
“Dad—no! Dad! Please, Dad!” The words burst
out from Robin’s throat and echoed in the vast
living room.
He shook his father harder.
Nicholas’s body felt so light in Robin’s arms, so
42

THE FIRST SCREAM
light and fragile. Thin. And brittle. He shook it
anyway.
Not thinking. Not seeing. Everything a blur again.
A blur of reds and purples.
“Dad? Dad?”
Purples?
Robin glanced toward the doorway that led to his
father’s study. A haze of purple smoke hovered
around the door. Faint wisps of purple, rising slowly
‘0 the ceiling.
Purple smoke? Again?
Robin lowered his head to his father’s chest.
Pressed his cheek against the smooth fabric of his
white shirt. And listened.
To silence.
No heartbeat. No thud of life.
Silence.
“Dad? Please— Dad?”
Wisps of purple smoke floated into the living
‘oom, carrying a sweet-sour odor. Spicy with a hint
if decay.
“Dad?”
The purple smoke swirled, heavier, lower. Robin
azed up, saw it form a cloud over his father.
Nicholas stirred.
Groaned.
Opened his eyes.
“Dad?”
“Oh. Hello, Robin.” His voice calm. Matter-of-
43

—
FEAR PARK
“Da-ad?” Robin’s voice broke. He still gripped his
father by the shoulders. ““You’re okay?”
Nicholas raised his head and glanced around the
room. “Yes. I’m fine,” he replied. But his voice
revealed a little uncertainty, a little surprise.
“Dad... you—you—” Robin stammered. He
felt so relieved, so relieved his father was alive. So
relieved, his chest felt about to burst.
He wanted to hug his father. Hug him and press
his cheek against his.
But of course he never would do that. Except to
shake hands, father and son never touched.
“What am I doing in here?” Nicholas asked,
sitting up slowly. He shook his head, as if trying to
clear it.
Robin noticed that the strange purple smoke
swirls had vanished.
“T don’t know,” Robin said, raising himself to his
knees. “I—I found you in here.” He swallowed
hard. ““You weren’t breathing. I—I thought you were
... dead. What happened, Dad?”
Nicholas shook his head again. He pulled off his
eyeglasses and squinted through them as if trying to
see the answer inside them. Then he replaced them
carefully and swept a hand back over his bald head.
He gazed up at Robin, still trying to focus his eyes.
“Tm not sure what happened,” he said softly.
Robin climbed to his feet. Then he reached out
both hands and helped his father up.
Nicholas swayed unsteadily, looking as if he might
fall back to the floor.
44

THE FIRST SCREAM
Robin helped him to one of the big, overstuffed
leather armchairs in front of the stone fireplace.
“You don’t remember how you got here?” he de-
manded. “You really don’t remember?”
Robin never questioned his father like this. But
finding him dead—or near-dead—on the floor had
been too frightening.
Robin had to know what was going on.
“T was practicing something,” Nicholas revealed,
staring into the dark fireplace.
“Practicing . . . what?” Robin demanded.
Nicholas didn’t reply for a while. He stared into
the empty fireplace, squinting and unsquinting his
eyes, working his jaw.
When he turned to Robin, he had a strange,
unsettled expression on his face. ““Did you see your
mother?” he asked, staring hard into Robin’s eyes.
“Huh?” Robin’s mouth dropped open in shock.
“Mom?”
“Did you see her?” Nicholas repeated. He
sounded frightened.
Robin’s throat tightened. Something is very wrong
with Dad, he thought. A chill of dread swept down
nis body.
“Dad,” Robin replied softly, trying to keep his
voice low and calm. “You know Mom has been dead
‘or over twelve years.”
“Did you see her?” Nicholas insisted. He glanced
round the room, as if expecting to find her.
“No, Dad,” Robin replied, feeling sick, fighting
Jown waves of nausea. “No. I didn’t see Mom.”
45

= ss
FEAR PARK
Nicholas let out a long sigh. “I thought you might
see her.”
Robin swallowed hard. “She’s dead, Dad. Re-
member?”
Nicholas nodded. “She may come back,” he said,
returning his gaze to the fireplace.
Robin gasped. “What did you say?”
Nicholas didn’t seem to hear him. He shut his
eyes, as if closing Robin out.
“Dad—what did you just say?” Robin insisted.
“She may be back,” his father said, sighing, eyes
still closed.
Robin started to say something. But a sound at the
living-room door made him stop.
A rustling sound.
A cough.
Robin spun to the doorway.
“Mom?”
46

onap te,
A veiled figure floated into the room,
surrounded by swirls of purple smoke.
Robin gaped in amazement. In horror.
He heard a hiss escape his father’s lips. “It is she!”
Nicholas Fear leapt up from the armchair and
srabbed Robin’s shoulders, squeezing so hard that
Robin flinched in pain. “I’ve tried for so long,”
Nicholas whispered.
The figure floated closer.
Robin squinted to see it clearly through the swirl-
ng mist of purple.
He could see the outlines of a woman’s skirt, dark
ind long, nearly brushing over the floor. Behind the
urls of purple, he saw her arms, her tiny hands held
47

FEAR PARK
in front of her waist. Saw the long, dangling sleeves -
of a loose-fitting blouse.
She flickered and floated—like a flame, Robin
thought. Like a purple flame. He strained to see her
face.
Did she have a face?
A wide-brimmed hat hid her face from view.
The purple haze formed a veil over her. Veil over
veil. She appeared to Robin as a shadow inside a
shadow. A hazy figure in a fog of blue-purple.
“Mom?” he gasped.
Robin could feel his father pressing up behind
him. He could hear his father’s wheezing breaths,
hear his racing heartbeat. Feel the tight grip of his
father’s hands on his shoulders.
“*Yessss!’’ Nicholas Fear hissed again. “‘Yessss! It is
Ruth! It is she!”
A chill made Robin’s entire body shudder. Watch-
ing the shadowy, hazy form float across the room, he
struggled to remember his mother.
Struggled to remember her face. Her smile.
He could draw up only a blank face surrounded by
dark curls. Were her eyes blue or black?
He couldn’t remember.
He couldn’t remember her eyes, her smile, her
voice.
He couldn’t remember her laugh.
Couldn’t remember anything at all, except for the
dark curls. And the smell of lilacs.
Lilacs?
How was he supposed to remember?
48

THE FIRST SCREAM
She died when he was four.
But now she floated toward him across the living
room. Floated inside a cloud of purple mist, for their
reunion after so many years.
Her long skirt rippled as she floated. Her arms
suddenly appeared to bend and flap like pennants in
a strong wind. The wide-brimmed hat shimmered
and bobbed, hiding her face from Robin.
What have you done, Dad? Robin thought.
Have you really used your sorcery to bring Mother
back from the grave? Have you spent the last twelve
years in that dark library of yours, poring over your
books, chanting your spells, calling up your eerie,
purple smoke—have you worked all these years to
bring her back?
How did you do it?
No. Please don’t tell me.
Robin really didn’t want to know.
He had a sudden urge to run, to burst out of the
room without waiting for the shadowy, shimmering
figure to arrive.
But his father’s grip held him in place.
And he realized his legs were paralyzed, his whole
body frozen—in fear? In amazement? In simple
curiosity?
**Yessss, Ruth!’ Nicholas hissed.
The figure drew nearer, the long skirt silently
sweeping over the floor. The sleeves of the blouse
billowing. The entire figure eater g like'‘a shadowy
cloud.
49

_ FEAR PARK
Nearer.
Robin felt a wave of sharp cold.
The air around the approaching figure was frigid,
heavy with chill.
Please turn, Mother, Robin urged acca Please
turn so I can see your face.
He shivered. Even his father’s firm grip on his
shoulders couldn’t keep his body from shaking.
The cold swept over him. He had never felt cold
like this before.
Not an earthly cold.
A cold from beyond the grave.
The coldest cold of all. The lifeless chill of death.
Please turn, Mother. I want to see you. I want to
see your face.
The billowing figure floated nearer. And then, as if
reading Robin’s thoughts, she turned her head.
The purple fog swept away. The wide-brimmed
hat slid back.
And Robin saw his mother’s face.
Saw the gray-green bone of her rotting, mold-
spotted skull.
Saw the black, gaping pits where her eyes had once
been.
Saw her hollow, gap-toothed grin. Her jawbone
hanging slack. Bits of dried black skin clinging to the
hole where her lips at one time had smiled at him.
Where her lips had kissed him.
No lips now. No mouth at all. Just rotting chunks
of meat and bone.
50

THE FIRST SCREAM
“Nooooooce!” A low howl of horror escaped
Robin’s throat.
And when he saw the fat, brown worm twist its
way out of his mother’s gaping left nostril, he shut
his eyes—and screamed and screamed and
screamed.
at

cnaPle,,
9
Axa woke up screaming.
His father was leaning over him, squinting down
at him through his glasses, his thin lips pursed and
dry. And a nurse stood on his other side, a pleasant-
faced woman in a white uniform, black hair tucked
under her uniform cap.
Robin cut off his voice in mid-scream. Felt the
soreness of his throat. As if it were on fire. As if
someone had scraped sandpaper over his throat,
down to his chest. Scraped and scraped until he
ached and throbbed and bled.
His chest heaved. He struggled to catch his breath.
He gazed up at his father’s concerned face. Strug-
gled to focus. Saw his father’s bottom lip caked with
blood. From chewing it?
32

THE FIRST SCREAM
“Tt must have been a terrible nightmare, son,”
Nicholas murmured, glancing at the nurse. “It must
have been the worst nightmare yet.”
Robin tried to reply, but could only croak.
A nightmare?
No.
This has happened before, Robin knew. Dad has
tried his sorcery before. And succeeded only in
frightening me.
And then called it a nightmare.
Hired a nurse and called it a nightmare. Paid her
to say it was a nightmare, too.
As if a nightmare could be that frightening.
As if a nightmare could be as frightening as the
truth.
But Robin always played along. What choice did
he have?
“You were in a deep sleep, young man,” the nurse
reported. Saying what she was paid to say.
“How . . . long?” Robin whispered. The effort
sent stabs of pain up and down his throat.
How long have I been screaming? he wondered.
“Today is Monday,” Nicholas replied.
Two days? Have I really been screaming since
Saturday?
Why was I screaming?
Robin couldn’t remember. It was the other part of
his father’s strategy. Did he hypnotize Robin and
force the memory away? How did ae erase the
memory from Robin’s brain?
Robin knew he’d been frightened—horrified.
53

FEAR PARK
Horrified enough to scream for two days. But he
couldn’t remember why.
“Are you feeling okay?” Nicholas asked softly, but
without any real feeling. He leaned over Robin,
studying his face, studying his eyes.
To make sure I don’t remember? Robin wondered.
“Tm... okay,” Robin whispered, his aching
throat reminding him of his ordeal.
“ll get you a glass of water,” the nurse offered.
She vanished from Robin’s view.
He raised his head. His bedroom looked the same.
At least his bedroom looked the same. Nothing
had changed—except something deep in the far-
thest reaches of his mind.
Something lost now. A nightmare lost in a night-
mare. A nightmare that was true.
Nicholas shook his head. A practiced move. As if
he’d been rehearsing his sympathy.
“What a horrible nightmare you must have had,
Robin,” he repeated. “Thank goodness it is over.”
He sighed. “I wish this didn’t happen to you so
often.”
Me too, Robin thought bitterly.
“T must leave for a short while,” Nicholas said. He
sighed. “I have a new nightmare of my own.”
“Huh?” Robin wanted to speak, but the pain was
too great.
“The town council met this morning,” Nicholas
reported, unable to hide the anger in his voice.
“They couldn’t wait to vote on that Jack Bradley’s
proposal.”
The park?
54

THE FIRST SCREAM
Robin’s memory floated back. Floated .. . like a
ghostly figure.
A ghostly figure Robin had seen somewhere. Re-
cently.
A figure floating in a room. ...
Where? He couldn’t remember.
“They voted to take the woods from us, Robin,”
Nicholas continued bitterly. “One hundred acres.
They voted to take one hundred acres of our woods
to build their foolish amusement park.”
“Sorry, Dad,” Robin mouthed.
“We can’t let them do that to our property—can
we, Robin?” Nicholas demanded. “We can’t let
them take the woods from us.”
He isn’t really talking to me, Robin realized. He’s
talking to himself.
“Til be back up here soon,” Nicholas said, patting
the covers over Robin’s chest. “Get some sleep,
son.” He headed out the door. “You'll be okay. It
was only another nightmare.”
No, it wasn’t, Robin thought, watching his father
leave.
It wasn’t a nightmare, Dad.
It was real.
It’s always been real.
That’s what is special about my life. My night-
mares are always real.
Jack Bradley hoisted the coiled rope. onto his
shoulder. Then he lifted the metal case of surveying
55

>.
FEAR PARK
tools and called to his two helpers. “This way!
Barney! Ken!”
Shielding their eyes from the glare of late after-
noon sunlight, the two men, in denim overalls and
work shirts, followed Jack into the trees. Barney, tall
and bearded, carried two more coils of rope. Ken, a
nineteen-year-old who looked about twelve, carried
a bundle of wooden stakes.
Jack motioned for them to hurry. The sun was
already lowering itself behind the tall trees. He
wanted to finish before dark.
He wasn’t superstitious. And he didn’t believe the
wild stories he’d heard since he was a child. But he
didn’t want to be in the Fear Street Woods after the
sun set.
His work boots sank into the soft ground. The
tools clanked inside the chest as he stepped over a
fallen tree limb. “Mark it here,” he instructed Ken.
The young man wrinkled up his face, as if he
didn’t understand the words. Then he slid one of the
wooden stakes out from the bunch and, with the
other hand, produced a small sledgehammer from
the back pocket of his overalls.
“Here?
Jack nodded.
Ken bent and pounded the stake into the ground.
“Are we going straight back?” Barney asked,
scratching his beard.
“Yes. Straight back,” Jack replied. ““We’ll get the
depth measured first. Then we'll measure the
width.”
36

THE FIRST SCREAM
Barney shook his head. ““Whew. A hundred acres.
Nicholas Fear must be howling like a wounded dog.”
Jack smiled. He tried to picture stiff, stern, digni-
fied Nicholas Fear howling like a dog.
I can’t believe the man’s selfishness, Jack thought.
We even offered to share some of the profits of the
park with him. But still he refused to even listen to
us.
Jack didn’t really want to take the hundred acres
by force. But what choice did the town have?
So many people were out of work. The amusement
park will get the town going again, Jack thought.
Without it, Shadyside might not survive.
“This is a big job for three men,” Barney said,
tying one end of a coiled rope around the stake in the
ground. “Do you think we can finish measuring
today, Jack?”
Jack pulled off his black leather cap and scratched
his blond hair. “We'll do what we can, Barney.”
Jack had asked his son Richard to help out. But
Richard was running around somewhere with that
girlfriend of his, Meghan Fairwood.
Jack sighed. I don’t see much of Richard these
days, he thought. If he isn’t spending time with that
girl, he’s busy practicing with his baseball team.
I’ve got to make a date with him, Jack decided.
Just the two of us. Maybe we’ll go fishing at that
spot on the Conononka where we caught all those
catfish.
As the sun lowered and the air grew cooler, the
three men continued to measure off the acres. Ken
57

betas:
i.
FEAR PARK
pounded the stakes into the soft ground. Barney
strung the rope, the back of his work shirt stained
with sweat, despite the coolness of the afternoon.
Deeper into the woods, Jack spotted a narrow,
trickling stream. He peered into the clear water,
searching for schools of minnows, but didn’t see any.
“Do we cross the stream?” Ken asked.
Jack nodded. “The stream will have to go,” he
said, following it with his eyes. “We'll have to fill it
in. We can’t have a stream in the middle of an
amusement park.”
The water trickled pleasantly, a musical sound.
The three men followed along the bank for a short
while. Jack stopped when he saw shoe prints in the
muddy shore.
Shoe prints of at least three people. “Strange. I
didn’t think anyone came back here,” he murmured.
“It’s narrow enough to jump over here,” Barney
reported.
“It’s real shallow. We can walk through,” Jack told
him, stepping into the stream. The water rose only
halfway up his boots. “It doesn’t get deep until it
nears Fear Lake.”
They waded across the stream, stringing the mea-
suring rope with them. The sun lowered even more.
The sky darkened. Their shadows across the mud
were a deep blue now.
“Stake the spot there,” Jack said, pointing.
Ken knelt and pulled out a stake.
As Jack turned toward the trees, he heard the hard
clang of the sledgehammer.
538

THE FIRST SCREAM
And then he heard Ken scream.
*“Nooooo! My foot! Noooooo!”’
Jack gasped and spun around.
And saw Ken shrieking in agony.
First he saw Ken’s face, twisted in pain. Then he
saw the wooden stake, sticking up through the top of
Ken’s boot.
“My foot! My foot!” Ken wailed. His hands
flapped the air frantically, like the wings of a wild
bird.
' Around the stake, bright red blood puddled up
onto the boot.
How did he ever do that? Jack asked himself. How
did he drive a wooden stake through his foot?
And then the questions flew from his mind as he
hurried to help the young man. He and Barney knelt
beside Ken, urging him to be calm, telling him he’d
be okay.
“Should we pull out the stake?” Barney de-
manded, his voice weak, trembling.
Blood seeped all around the stake, trickling down
the leather boot.
“No. Don’t remove it,” Jack instructed. “It'll start
to bleed too much. We’ve got to get him to the car.
Get him to Shadyside General.”
“It hurts... Ohhhh...The pain!” Ken cried
weakly.
Jack and Barney hoisted him to his feet.
“Help him to the car,” Jack instructed Barney.
“Ken, lean on Barney. Don’t put any weight on the
39

a al aN
FEAR PARK
foot. Barney will drive you to the hospital. You'll be
fine. As soon as they stop the bleeding.”
“What are you going to do?” Barney demanded.
Jack shrugged. “Finish up. Leave the rope, okay?”
“But, Jack—” Barney protested.
Ken groaned.
“Get him to the car,” Jack urged sharply. “I’m
only going to work another couple of minutes. Then
Pil get out of here.”
Barney started to argue, but saw that Jack had his
mind made up. He tightened his arm around Ken’s
waist and helped him back over the stream.
Jack watched them until they disappeared into the
trees. Even after they were out of sight, he could still
hear Ken’s groans and cries of pain.
Ken isn’t a clumsy boy, Jack thought, shaking his
head. Ken has always been a steady, dependable
worker. How could he do such a thing?
How could he be so careless as to smash a pointed
wooden stake right through his boot and foot?
Jack shuddered, imagining how much pain Ken
was in.
And then the itching started.
It began on his chest. A light tingling. Jack hardly
noticed it at first.
When he became aware of it, he thought a few
insects were crawling across his chest. He scratched
at them through the front of his work shirt.
The itching grew sharper. More like insect bites
now.
And it spread to his shoulders. Under his arms.
60

THE FIRST SCREAM
Jack dropped the surveying tool and scratched his
arm. “Darned bugs!”
Have I walked into some kind of mosquito
swarm? he wondered.
They crawled over his neck now, pinching, biting.
The pain grew intense.
He plucked at his throat, trying to pull the insects
off.
But to his surprise, he could find no insects.
His chest itched, tingling, throbbing. He tore open
his shirt and scratched with both hands.
The itching circled his neck. Ran down his back.
His legs trembled. He gasped for breath.
He bent to scratch his legs. Then rubbed his
itching cheeks.
“T—JI can’t take this!” he cried out loud.
But the words were muffled because the inside of
his mouth was itching now. And his tongue itched
and tingled as if a thousand bugs were crawling over
it.
“H-help . . .” Jack stammered.
He scratched at his throat. Rubbed his cheeks.
Scratched his itching chest.
Scratched and clawed. Clawing the skin off his
chest.
But the itching didn’t fade.
“Ohhhhh ...” A low moan escaped his itching
throat.
His legs itched and throbbed and could no longer
hold him up. He dropped to his knees. Moaning.
Gasping to breathe.
rd 61

tet aS an 3 cds
FEAR PARK
He clawed the skin off his arms. Dark blood
soaked through his shirt.
Scratching and clawing. Clawing frantically, like a
crazed animal.
I can’t stop! he realized.
Can’t stop! Can’t stop!
Am I going to claw off all my skin?
62

cnaPlep
10
iss fastened the buttons on the
front of her blue, wool cardigan sweater, then
crossed her arms over her chest. She peered into the
trees, impatiently pacing a few steps in one direc-
tion, then the other.
Where is Richard? she wondered.
I can’t wait here in the woods much longer. The
sun is nearly down.
She shivered. The air had grown wet and cold.
This was a foolish idea, she told herself. Meeting
Richard here. Telling my parents I had to stay late at
school.
And now Richard isn’t even here.
She suddenly found herself thinking about Robin
Fear.
. 68

FEAR PARK
Was it just because these were his woods? No.
Meghan admitted to herself that she’d been thinking
about Robin a lot.
About his dark, solemn eyes. His shy smile.
Sometimes she pictured the two of them, walking
together in school. Or walking alone together by the
river or through Shadyside Park.
Could I really break up with Richard? Meghan
wondered. Can I break up with him so that I can go
out with Robin Fear?
Her thoughts surprised her.
Why can’t I ever make up my mind? she asked
herself.
I thought I really cared about Richard. Now I’m
not so sure.
A gust of wind fluttered her hair. The trees trem-
bled. She suddenly felt as if a thousand eyes were
peering out at her from behind the bushes and dark
tree trunks. .
Don’t get carried away, Meghan, she scolded her-
self.
There’s no one else back here by the stream but
you.
But then two low shrubs parted. Meghan heard
the hard crunch of shoes on the ground. And a dark
figure came running out at her.
*‘Richard—where were you?” she cried, her voice
more shrill than she had intended. “I’ve been stand-
ing here alone in the woods for over half an hour.”
“Sorry,” he replied breathlessly. He stepped up to
64

THE FIRST SCREAM
her and kissed her cheek. His forehead dripped with
sweat. She guessed he’d run the whole way.
“Coach kept us late,”’ he explained. “He said we
were only going through the motions. He wanted to
see some team spirit.” Richard scowled. “‘How are
we supposed to have team spirit if he keeps telling us
how bad we are and keeps us late every day?”
Richard mopped his forehead with the sleeve of
his sweater. He leaned down to kiss her again, but
Meghan backed away.
She shivered. “I really have to get home. It’s
almost dinnertime. This was a dumb idea.”
He frowned. “It wasn’t my fault.” He slid an arm
heavily around her shoulders.
_ She started to protest, then changed her mind. His
arm felt warm. She couldn’t shake her chill. She
pressed her cheek against his chest.
They started to walk. Richard was talking. Some-
thing about the baseball team and its coach.
Meghan didn’t really hear. She gazed into the
trees. Only shades of gray and black now. As if all
the color had been drained from the world.
Feeling Richard’s weight on her shoulders, she
thought about Robin.
Robin and Richard.
“What are you thinking about?” Richard’s voice
broke into her thoughts. He removed his arm from
her shoulders.
“Huh? Nothing,” she replied. “Just listening to
you. I guess I’m worried that I’m going to be late for
65

FEAR PARK
dinner. Mom is going to ask where I was. And you
know what a bad liar I am.”
He chuckled. “You always start to stutter and
stammer when you lie.”
He stopped walking. She saw his expression
change. He squinted into the gray. “Is that a deer
over there? On the ground?”
Before Meghan could reply, he started trotting
over toward it. “Hey!” Richard let out a cry as he
suddenly tripped. He appeared to lose his balance,
his feet flying up behind him, his arms shooting out.
He landed heavily on the ground. Meghan
watched him sit up slowly, shaking his head. “A
rope,” he explained. “Look. Someone strung up a
rope across here.”
“No kidding!” Meghan exclaimed. “Why would
anyone do that?”
Richard didn’t reply. He appeared to be staring in
the other direction. Staring at the dark form of a
deer lying on the ground.
Meghan hurried up to him as he climbed to his
feet. They approached the unmoving body slowly,
walking side by side.
Meghan cried out first.
It wasn’t a body, she saw.
Not a body. Not a deer.
Not a deer. Not an animal.
A human. A human skeleton.
A skeleton with the bones... the bones... the
bones picked clean.
Even in the dark, she could see the rib bones,
66

THE FIRST SCREAM
poking up smooth and gray. She could see the bare
kneecaps, the leg bones bent so that the skeleton
appeared to be trying to sit up.
One bony hand gripped the top of the ribcage, as if
holding the heart or scratching the chest. The other
arm stretched over the grass. The hand held an
object.
A shiny object lay near the skeleton. Gripped in
horror, Meghan squinted harder. A tape measure?
“Ohhhhbhhh.”
Meghan heard a long, low moan from beside her.
She turned away from the skeleton to see Richard’s
face twisted in horror. Richard’s eyes . . . filled with
tears.
Richard’s whole body convulsing in shudder after
shudder.
“Richard? Are you.. .?” She lowered her eyes
back to the skeleton.
And saw the head.
Not a skull. Not bare, gray bone like the rest of the
body.
The head remained. The face. The hair.
A man’s face.
Still there. The skin nearly as pale as the bones of
the skeleton. The eyes staring straight up. The
mouth twisted open in a silent, frozen shout.
The head.
Still whole. Still fleshy. Still there.
Meghan pressed her hands against her face. She
tried to scream. But no sound came out.
She couldn’t take her eyes off it.
67

FEAR PARK
Just a head on top of a skeleton.
A man’s head on top of bones. As if a swarm of
insects had attacked and eaten everything but the
head.
The head.
Jack Bradley’s head.
“Dad!” Richard shrieked, dropping to his knees.
Reaching out one hand, reaching, reaching out to the
head on top of the bones.
“Dad! Dad! Dad! Dad! Dad!”
Richard’s screams burst over the hushed whisper
of the swaying trees.
68

cnaPley,
11
|2 stepped into the square of gold-
en sunlight on his bedroom carpet. He had been
pacing back and forth in his room since breakfast.
Jack Bradley’s head and skeleton had been found
in the woods almost a week ago. Robin hadn’t seen
it. But he had read the newspaper stories.
And thought about it.
And dreamed about it.
The newspaper stories described it in such clear
detail. Jack Bradley’s head lying faceup in the grass.
His mouth twisted open in horror. The head still
attached to the neck bone.
And the rest... just bones. Sprawled on the
grass. Picked clean.
Z1

- ae” seal
FEAR PARK
As if there had been no skin, no muscles, no
organs, no veins.
Where had that all gone?
Mr. Bradley had been dead for only an hour or
two when Meghan and Richard discovered him. So
where had the rest of him gone?
Robin thought he knew the answer. His theory
kept him awake at night, and had him pacing his
room on this Saturday morning.
The Fears hadn’t attended Jack Bradley’s funeral.
Robin was relieved his father hadn’t chosen to go.
He knew that Nicholas would not be welcome.
Robin read in the newspaper that the funeral was
one of the biggest in the history of Shadyside. Mr.
Bradley was a very popular man. As a member of the
town council and as the major builder of houses in
town, he knew just about everyone.
Mr. Bradley’s plans to build an amusement park
were also really popular. Most people believed the
park would save the town and make it a big tourist
attraction.
The newspaper said that Jack Bradley might have
been the next mayor of Shadyside. Police depart-
ments from all over the state were sending men to
help investigate his bizarre death. .
Was he killed by some kind of animal—or
animals—in the woods?
Was he murdered by a human?
Was it murder at all?
Could he have contracted some strange kind of
rapid, flesh-eating disease?
12

THE FIRST SCREAM
So far, the police were mystified. They hadn’t a
clue.
Pacing in his room, his hands cold, tightened into
fists at his sides, Robin thought he knew the answer
to the mystery.
It was Dad, Robin thought.
He didn’t want to believe it.
But who else could have been responsible?
Robin couldn’t stop thinking about the angry
meeting between his father and Jack Bradley. He
couldn’t forget the furious expression on his father’s
face the day they came upon Mr. Bradley surveying a
section of the woods.
Had Robin’s dad warned Mr. Bradley then? Had
Nicholas threatened him?
Robin couldn’t remember his father’s exact
words. But he had seen his father’s rage. And he
knew how determined Nicholas was to keep the
woods—ail of the woods—as Fear property.
Did Nicholas Fear murder Jack Bradley?
Robin thought of the swirls of purple smoke. Once
again he saw his father surrounded by the eerie mist
in his library, floating, floating in midair.
Just a dream, Robin’s father had said. It didn’t
happen. Another one of your nightmares, son.
But Robin knew it had happened. Robin knew
that Nicholas had spells and magic. Robin knew
about the old books in the library and the sorcery
they contained.
Did his father use magic to murder Jack Bradley?
Robin stopped pacing. He picked up an old
73

FEAR PARK
wooden top from the corner of his desk. A small
top, a childhood toy.
Thinking about his father, Robin squeezed the top
in his hand. Squeezed it hard, until his hand hurt.
Then he heaved the top at the wall.
It thudded loudly against the pale-blue wallpaper,
then bounced and rolled across the floor.
I have to know, Robin decided.
I have to know if Dad murdered Mr. Bradley. I
have to know the truth.
He hurried down the long staircase. Through the
dark living room, the drapes pulled tightly over the
front windows.
He stopped outside his father’s library. The door
was closed tight. But Robin heard sounds inside.
Music?
No. A woman’s voice.
Holding his breath, Robin pressed his ear against
the door. The woman was crying. Or was she laugh-
ing? Her voice was high and tiny, like a child’s.
No. Wait.
Robin struggled to hear. A high-pitched wail
drowned out the other voice. Then Robin heard a
third voice, deeper. A hoarse, smoky voice, whisper-
ing words he didn’t recognize.
Realizing that he still held his breath, Robin let it
out in a silent whoosh. What is going on in there? he
asked himself.
He pressed his cheek against the door. Inside the
library, the voices seemed to tumble and soar. At
74

THE FIRST SCREAM
least three voices—all female. Maybe more. Crying.
Moaning. Whispering.
And over those unfamiliar voices, Robin heard
another. His father’s voice, soft and distant. “Ruth
... Ruth...” Repeating Roin’s mother’s name ina
steady chant.
“Ruth ... Ruth...”
Robin heard sharp laughter. A woman crying. A
woman singing a tuneless melody.
What is happening? he wondered, gripping the
doorknob. What is my father doing?
Should I go in and find out?
Yes, he decided.
He turned the knob, pulled open the library door,
and peeked in.
75

<naPle,,
12
Ge the doorknob so tightly his
hand ached, Robin leaned into the dark room.
And saw no one.
The voices—the crying, the chanting, the
singing—all cut off.
Silence.
Robin uttered a startled gasp. His eyes were drawn
to a yellow cone of light from a small table lamp.
Beside the lamp, Nicholas Fear sat in a fat, brown
leather armchair, a large book in his lap.
“D-Dad?” Robin stammered.
His father kept reading for a few seconds, then
slowly raised his eyes to Robin. “Hello, son. I didn’t
hear you come in.” He sounded calm, drowsy.
Robin took a deep breath. His mouth suddenly
76

THE FIRST SCREAM
felt dry, so dry he wasn’t sure he could speak. He
glanced quickly around the room to make sure the
women he heard weren’t hiding somewhere.
“Dad? I—I heard voices,” he finally managed to
choke out. “I mean—”
Nicholas closed the big book carefully. A cloud of
dust rose up from it as he shut it. Behind the glasses,
his eyes narrowed at Robin. “Voices?”
Robin nodded. “I heard someone laughing, I
think. And someone singing.”
Nicholas set the book down on the table beside the
chair. ““Maybe I was humming to myself. Sometimes
I do that when I read.”
“No. I heard several women’s voices,” Robin
insisted. ““And I heard you chanting.”
Nicholas frowned. He studied Robin’s face. “I
hope you weren’t having a bad dream,” he said
softly.
“No, Dad. I really—”
Nicholas raised a hand to cut Robin off. “As you
can see, there’s no one else in here. I’ve been reading
quietly by myself for the past hour.”
Robin opened his mouth to protest once again.
But he realized there was no use arguing. The library
stood empty now, except for the two of them.
“Why did you come in here?” Nicholas asked,
rubbing at a small, dark stain on the leather chair
arm. “Did you want to ask me something?”
“Well . . . yes,” Robin replied awkwardly. “But I
don’t know if this is the time—”
Nicholas motioned for Robin to take the leather
77

FEAR PARK
armchair across from him. “Sit down, Robin. Are
you sure you’re feeling okay?” He crossed his long
legs as he continued to study Robin’s face.
“Yes. I guess.” Robin lowered himself over the
soft chair arm, then slid into the seat. “I wanted to
ask you about Mr. Bradley,” he blurted out.
Nicholas’s eyebrows jumped. But the rest of his
face didn’t move. “What about him?” Nicholas
demanded sharply.
“J... well...” Robin hesitated. How could he
accuse his own father of being a murderer?
*“Yes?”” Nicholas asked patiently, scratching the
knee of his gray wool trousers.
“T know you didn’t like him,” Robin started.
“It wasn’t personal,” his father interrupted.
“But I know you didn’t want him to build his
park,” Robin continued.
Nicholas nodded. “That is the truth. And now ’m
certain the park won’t be built.” His face revealed
no emotion at all.
“But, Dad—” Robin took a deep breath. “Did
you do something to Mr. Bradley? I mean, they
found his body...and...uh...it was so
strange...”
Robin’s heart pounded. This is too hard, he real-
ized. I never should have come in here. I can’t ask
my father if he’s a murderer, if he killed Mr. Bradley
in such a weird way.
Nicholas sat up. He leaned forward, bringing his
face close to Robin’s. He cleared his throat. “Robin,
78

THE FIRST SCREAM
are you asking me if I had anything to do with Jack
Bradley’s death?”
Robin swallowed hard. He nodded. “Yes.”
A strange smile spread over Nicholas’s face. His
eyes stared hard into Robin’s. “Did I murder Jack
Bradley? Is that your question?”
Robin nodded again. He felt his face go hot. His
knees trembled.
Nicholas leaned even closer, so close Robin could
smell his bay rum aftershave. “Robin,” Nicholas
whispered, “I’m going to tell you the truth.”
79

SnePle,
13
A shiver ran down Robin’s back. May-
be I don’t want to hear the truth, he thought.
But he knew it was too late.
“Of course I was unhappy about Jack Bradley’s
plan,” Nicholas began, speaking slowly, softly. He
kept his eyes narrowed at Robin. “And of course I
would do whatever I could to keep our woods, to
keep him from building an amusement park on our
property.”
So you did kill him! Robin thought, shivering
again.
“But I had respect for the man,” his father contin-
ued. He scratched his bald head. “And I have respect
for the law, Robin.”
Nicholas shook his head, his expression changing
80

THE FIRST SCREAM
to sadness. “I was as shocked by Bradley’s horrible
death as everyone else. I hate to see a good citizen of
Shadyside die such a gruesome and untimely
death.”
Robin stared back at his father. He didn’t move.
He felt his heart thudding in his chest.
The air suddenly felt heavy and cold. Robin felt
chilled, as if he had been sitting in a deep freeze.
He realized that his father was waiting for him to
reply. But Robin couldn’t think of a thing to say.
The two of them stared at each other in silence for
a few more seconds. Robin was the first to turn away.
“Uh ... thanks, Dad,” he murmured awkwardly.
“Feel better about things, son?” Nicholas asked.
Robin nodded. “Yes. Thanks. [ll...see you
later.”
Robin stood up unsteadily. His legs felt rubbery as
he crossed the room to the door. He turned to see
that his father had picked up the old book again and
was turning back to his page.
Robin stepped out into the hallway and closed the
heavy door behind him. I have to get out of this
house, he told himself. I have to walk in the fresh
air—and think.
He pulled open the front door. Bright sunlight
flooded the front entryway. He stepped out into the
sunlight and made his way toward the street.
Do I believe my father? he asked himself.
Do I believe what he ust;t old me in there?
Of course not.
81

FEAR PARK ©
Meghan was crossing Park Drive when she saw
Robin across the street, walking slowly up to the
school. She called to him, but he didn’t seem to hear
her.
“Hey—wait up! Robin—wait up!”
She started to cross, but a black Hudson rumbled
by. The car was packed with kids she knew. Three of
them rode outside, standing on the running boards.
They all waved and shouted to Meghan.
She waved back, then trotted across the street to
catch up to Robin. He walked with his head down, as
if thinking hard about something. He wore a loose,
white sweater over baggy, brown trousers. His dark
hair fell over his forehead.
“Robin?” Meghan called. He’s probably heading
to Shadyside Park, she thought. The park stretched
behind the high school, all the way down to the
river.
She called his name again, and he turned around.
She saw surprise on his face, and then a shy smile.
Meghan felt her heart begin to race. I really have a
crush on him, she realized. A serious crush.
She had found herself thinking about Robin a lot.
And now seeing him made her suddenly feel ner-
vous, kind of fluttery.
“Hi,” he called as she ran up to him. “I didn’t see
you.” He kept his hands shoved in his pockets.
“What are you doing way over here?” she asked
breathlessly.
“Just walking,” he replied with a shrug.
One of her white knee socks had fallen to her
82

THE FIRST SCREAM
ankle. She bent to pull it up, then straightened the
front of her long, plaid skirt.
She grinned at him. “But I thought you only liked
to walk in the woods.”
His expression turned serious. “I had to get
away.”
“I know the feeling,” Meghan replied. “Some-
times I want to get as far away as possible. Some-
times I want to get out of my own skin.” She lowered
her eyes. “My parents don’t get along. Sometimes
their fights just drive me crazy.”
Why am I telling him this? Meghan wondered,
feeling embarrassed. He doesn’t want to hear about
my family life.
“T—kind of have family problems, too,”’ Robin
confessed.
They walked side by side past the parking lot
toward the back of the building. Meghan saw seven
or eight boys playing softball in a corner of the
football field. A blond-haired boy ran to first base.
The first baseman caught the ball and tagged him.
And a loud fight began over whether he was safe or
out.
“Do you like sports?” Meghan asked Robin.
The question appeared to surprise him. “No. Not
really,” he replied, watching the kids shout and
shove one another. “I like to listen to baseball games
on the radio sometimes. But I don’t like to play
sports.”
They walked past the field, making their way to
the broad, grassy area where Shadyside Park began.
83

FEAR PARK
White moths fluttered over the grass. A robin tugged
at a fat, brown worm.
“I’m a pretty good tennis player,” Meghan said,
trying to keep the conversation going. “That’s really
my sport. They make us play field hockey in gym all
the time. I think it’s so boring. I'd rather play
softball or something. But of course, girls can’t play
that sport.”
Why am I jabbering on and on like this? she asked
herself. She felt so jittery, not at all like herself. And
I’m not usually such a chatterbox, either, she
thought.
It’s Robin, she decided.
I’m trying to impress him. I’m trying to make him
like me. To get his attention.
But it’s so hard. He’s so... shy. So deep inside
himself. It’s so hard to know if he even hears me.
They stopped in front of two old oak trees. The
limbs overhead were twined together, forming an
arch. The narrow dirt path led through the arch.
Does Robin like me? Meghan wondered. Does he
think about me at all?
And suddenly, impulsively—crazily—she put her
hands on the shoulders of his sweater, raised her
mouth to his, and kissed him.
A short kiss. But a kiss.
Nice, she thought, her hands still pressed on his
shoulders, his sweater warm from the sun.
“Oh!” He uttered a soft cry of surprise. His dark
eyes went wide.
What have I done? Meghan asked herself.
84

THE FIRST SCREAM
She stepped back.
As a figure came leaping furiously toward her.
“Richard!” Meghan shrieked, seeing his angry
glare. “Where did you come from? I just—”
Richard uttered an angry growl, like an animal
about to attack. “Meghan—I don’t believe you!” he
cried. “You sneak out with—with him while I’m
mourning my father?”
“No—” Meghan shouted. “You don’t understand.
[—”
She didn’t get a chance to finish.
Richard uttered another animal cry. Then he
swung around hard. His fist came up. And made a
hard thock as he thrust it at Robin’s face.
Meghan gasped as Richard’s fist glanced off
Robin’s cheek and nose. A smear of bright blood
washed over Robin’s cheek, dripped onto his chin.
“Richard—stop it!” she cried.
Robin staggered back, stunned. His hand went up
to his bloodied face. ““Hey—” he choked out, more
of a grunt than a cry of protest.
And Richard hit him again. A hard blow to the
stomach.
Robin gasped. Blood spilled from his nose. He
doubled over.
Richard grabbed his shoulders. Kicked him hard
in the side.
“No! Richard—stop!”’ Meghan shrieked.
He ignored her cries. Kicked Robin again.
Robin let out a squeal. Covered his bleeding head
with both hands.
85

——— os \s
FEAR PARK |
“Stop it!” Meghan wailed. She grabbed Richard’s
shoulders, tried to pull him off Robin.
Richard swung his arm hard, sending Meghan
toppling back.
He drove a hard punch into Robin’s throat.
Robin gurgled. Blood puddled under him.
“Stop it, Richard! Stop it!’ Meghan shrieked.
“Stop it! You’re going to kill him!”
86

SnaPley,
14
|a shot through Robin’s chest. His
stomach heaved. He struggled to breathe.
Covering his face with both hands, he felt blood, a
river of blood, sticky and warm.
A blow to the chest made him groan. The pain felt
like a sharp knife in his side. Or a whip. Someone
cracking a whip against his ribs.
This can’t be happening, he thought.
This can’t be happening to me—in front of
Meghan.
He rolled away from another punch. Somehow
pulled himself to his feet. His legs trembled. His
whole body shook.
I didn’t fight back, he thought, still shielding his
face.
87

FEAR PARK
I just let him punch me, kick me. I didn’t fight
back.
In front of Meghan. I didn’t fight back.
She was helping him up, he realized. He lowered
his hands from his face and saw her holding on to his
arm. Her red hair had fallen in wet tangles over her
face. She was breathing hard, trembling.
In anger? Or fear? Robin wondered.
He saw Richard behind her, calmly examining a
cut on his fist. Richard didn’t glance up.
“Are you okay?” Meghan asked in a whisper.
“Robin—should I get help?”
He swallowed hard but didn’t answer her.
I’ve never been so embarrassed, so humiliated, he
thought.
I just want to die. To disappear.
I didn’t fight back. I didn’t fight back.
Meghan had to help me up.
““Nooooooo!”’ A long howl of protest burst from
his throat.
And suddenly, Robin was running. Running from
the park. Running past two startled boys on bikes
who had to hit their brakes. Running past the
softball game where another argument had ex-
ploded.
Running.
If only I could run away from myself, he thought.
If only I could run forever.
The phone on the end table in the living room
rang. Meghan trotted in from the hall to answer it.
88

THE FIRST SCREAM
The heavy, black receiver had sticky stuff on the
mouthpiece. Someone must have been eating some-
thing and talking on the phone at the same time, she
figured.
“Hello?” Meghan said breathlessly.
“Hi, it’s me.” Richard’s voice. “I called to apolo-
gize. You know. For this afternoon.”
Meghan sighed. “Richard,” she scolded, “you
know I’m not allowed to talk on the phone. We have
a party line. There are four other families who use
this number. So I’m only allowed to talk in emergen-
cies.”
“Well, this is an emergency,” he replied. “I didn’t
mean to lose control this afternoon. It’s just that—”
“T really can’t talk,” Meghan snapped. “Sorry.”
She replaced the receiver.
Meghan still felt too upset to accept Richard’s
apology. She really didn’t want to talk to him.
Poor Robin, she thought.
Richard is so big and athletic. He had no business
picking on Robin like that. Robin didn’t stand a
chance.
Meghan couldn’t chase away her guilty feelings. It
was all my fault, she realized. If I hadn’t kissed
Robin...
Two minutes later, the front door opened. Meghan
looked up from the book she was reading to see
Richard burst into the house without knock-
ing. “Why did you hang up on me?” he demanded.
~ “IT told you. I’m not allowed to talk on the phone.”
89

FEAR PARK
She slammed the book shut. “What do you want?”
she asked coldly.
“To apologize,” he said. “I know I shouldn’t lose
my temper like that. But sometimes I just can’t help
it”
Meghan rolled her eyes. “Some apology.”
Richard crossed the room to her. He tried to take
her hand, but she yanked it away from him.
“I saw you kissing Robin Fear, and that’s what set
me off,” he said.
Meghan nodded. She knew it had been her fault.
“But you nearly killed him, Richard,” she said,
softening.
Richard tugged back a strand of his blond curls.
He pressed his lips into a pout. “I’m really sorry,” he
said. ““Please don’t be angry at me.”
He looks like a little boy, Meghan thought. She
realized she still was attracted to Richard.
“Well... maybe Ill accept your apology,” she
said coyly. She stuck out her hand. They shook
hands.
“You don’t really /ike Robin Fear—do you?”
Richard demanded.
Yes, I do, Meghan felt tempted to say. But she was
afraid of setting off Richard’s temper seta And she
really didn’t want to hurt him.
So she scape the question. ““Why were you in the
park, anyway?” she asked, rubbing at a dirt spot on
one of her brown-and-white shoes.
“Just stay away from him,” Richard warned. “I
90

THE FIRST SCREAM
mean it. ’m apologizing for what I did. But stay
away from him, Meghan.”
“Why were you in the park?” Meghan repeated.
“I was looking for you,” Richard replied. He
pulled up a leather ottoman and sat down across
from her. “I had good news. But then I saw Robin
and . . .” His voice trailed off.
“Good news?” Meghan leaned toward him, prop-
ping her head in her hands. “What kind of good
news?”
“It’s about the park,” Richard said excitedly.
“The town council—they voted to claim a section of
the Fear Street Woods for the town. In honor of my
father’s memory.”
“Richard, that’s wonderful!” Meghan cried. She
jumped to her feet, clasped her hands together, and
raised them over her shoulder in a sign of victory.
““Yaaay!”
“Yes,” Richard agreed. “It means that the amuse-
ment park will be built. My father’s dream will come
true.”
Meghan cheered again.
Richard raised both hands to quiet her. “That’s
not the only good news, Meghan. I’ve got more.
The mayor called my mother to tell her the whole
plan.”
“What is it? What plan?” Meghan demanded.
“After all the trees are cut down,” Richard said,
“the town is going to hire as many kids as possible to
chop up the stumps. Girls, too!”
91

FEAR PARK
“Really? Girls, too?”
Richard nodded. “They’re going to pay us a dollar
a day—and free admission when the park opens.”
Meghan whooped for joy. She hugged Richard.
I'll be able to earn some money this summer, she
thought. A dollar a day! I'll be able to help out Mom
and Dad.
“T can’t wait for my dad’s dream to come true,”
Richard said happily. “I can’t wait for the park to
open.”
“Neither can I!” Meghan cried, letting out another
joyful whoop. “I can’t wait, either!”
She had no way of knowing just how long—and
horrifying—the wait would be.
92

cap te,
15
vd
an you meet me after school?”
Meghan turned away from her locker to see who
had whispered to her. “Robin? Hi.”
She slammed the locker door. Then turned back
and studied his face. ““Are you okay?”
Robin rubbed the small, purple bruise on his right
cheek. “Yes. ’m hunky-dory. Fine.” He blushed.
It was Tuesday afternoon. Meghan hadn’t seen
him since that horrible fight on Saturday. “You don’t
look bad at all,” she told him.
“The bruises were mostly mental,” he replied,
lowering his eyes to his scuffed, brown leather shoes.
Remembering Richard and his threats, Meghan
glanced up and down the long hall. ‘Richard doesn’t
93

oe one
FEAR PARK
want me to talk to you.” The words burst from her
mouth before she could hold them back.
Robin shook his head. “Does he really tell you
who you can talk to and who you can’t? Do you let
him do that?”
“Of course not,” Meghan answered quickly. Now
it was her turn to feel embarrassed. “Where shall I
meet you?” she blurted out.
“In the woods?” Robin suggested. “At that meet-
ing place by the stream?”
Meghan shook her head. “No. I won’t go there,”
she told him. “Not since... we found Richard’s
father nearby. I—”
“How about Roger’s?” Robin asked. ““We can get a
malted or an ice cream soda. I'll treat.” :
He seemed so eager. Almost desperate.
Does he like me? Meghan wondered. Even after I
got him beat up?
Roger’s was a drugstore with a long soda fountain,
a hangout for Shadyside High students, just a couple
of blocks from the school.
What if Richard comes in and sees us? She
couldn’t keep the question from her mind.
No, she decided. The baseball team has a game
after school. Robin and I will be safe.
“Okay,” she whispered. “Ill meet you there at
four.”
She slammed her locker shut, turned, and started
away just as Richard came around the corner.
“How’s my girl?” he asked loudly.
“Just fine,” Meghan replied, and kept walking.
94

THE FIRST SCREAM
* * *
Meghan pushed open the glass door to Roger’s
and found Robin already waiting for her in the last
booth behind the soda fountain counter. The place
was crowded with noisy, laughing kids, drinking tall
malteds and sharing ice cream sundaes, eager to
blow off some steam after school.
“Hi,” Robin called, motioning for her to sit down
across the small table from him. As Meghan slid
into the red leather booth and dropped her book-
bag on the floor, she saw that his expression was
solemn.
“What’s wrong?” she demanded.
Before Robin could answer, the white-uniformed
waitress stepped up, pad in hand, to take their order.
They both asked for chocolate malteds.
Two friends waved to Meghan from stools at the
counter. Meghan waved back, then returned her
attention to Robin. “Is everything okay?” she asked.
“You look so troubled.”
He raked a hand tensely through his dark brown
hair. “I really wanted to talk to you,” he said.
She smiled at him. “‘Well? Here I am.”
She felt disappointed that he didn’t smile back.
A song started up on the radio. Meghan recog-
nized it, a jazzy Cab Calloway scat number called
“The Jumpin’ Jive.”
She suddenly felt like jumping up from the booth,
grabbing Robin, and dancing. Instead, she leaned
over the table so that she could hear Robin over the
music.
95

FEAR PARK
‘My father is an evil man.”
Was that what Robin said? Meghan strained to
hear over the blaring radio. ““What did you say?” she
asked.
Robin leaned closer. Now their faces were only
inches apart. ““My father is more evil than anyone
around here knows,” he told her.
Meghan drew back, startled by Robin’s words. She
thought he had asked her here because he wanted to
ask her out on a date.
Why was he telling her about his father?
Robin must have read her thoughts. “This is about
the amusement park,” he explained. His dark eyes
burned into hers. “I’m trying to tell you. My father
is furious that they took away part of the woods. And
he’s furious that they’re starting work on the park.”
_The waitress set down the malted milk shakes in
their tall glasses and a bowl of whipped cream to dab
on top. Robin waited for her to leave before contin-
uing.
Meghan plunged the straw into the malted and
took a long sip, still wondering why Robin was
telling her all this.
He ignored his malted and leaned over the table to
talk to her. “I want to escape my father’s evil,” he
continued.
“Huh?” Meghan wiped chocolate off her chin with
the napkin. “I’m not following you, Robin,” she
confessed.
“I want to show my father that he has to stop
96

THE FIRST SCREAM
using his evil powers,” Robin said urgently. “I want
to show him that he can’t control people’s lives.”
Meghan shoved the glass aside. “What are you
going to do?”
“T want to join the work crew on the park,” Robin
replied.
Her mouth dropped open. “Huh?”
“The crew of teenagers,” Robin explained.
“They’re going to hire teenagers to chop up all the
tree stumps to clear the woods. And I want to be on
that work crew.”
Meghan felt a stab of dread. “But, Robin,” she
said softly, “if your father finds out—”
“He won't find out,” Robin interrupted.
“But what if he does find out that you’re working
against him?” Meghan demanded. “What if he does
find out you’re working to build the park? What will
he do to you?”
Robin frowned. “I'll sneak out,” he replied. ““He’ll
never know.”
Meghan reached across the table and squeezed his
hand. When she started to pull her hand away, he
held onto it. He wrapped it between both of his
hands.
“J—uh...well...” He hesitated. Then the
words burst out of him in a fast-flowing stream. “I—
I really like you, Meghan. You probably already
guessed it. I think about you a lot. I’m joining the
work crew mainly so that I can see you.”
His words surprised Meghan. And pleased her.
97

FEAR PARK -
She raised her eyes to his and saw that he was
waiting for some kind of reply. “I'd like to see you,
too,” she told him.
The answer made him smile. He still held on to
her hand. His face was so close, she could see her
reflection in his dark eyes.
Once again, she felt drawn to him. Once again, she
leaned forward and kissed him.
And then she dropped back against the seat with a
sigh. “Are you sure you want to be on the work
crew?” she asked him. “I’m worried, Robin. I havea
bad feeling about it. A very bad feeling.”
Robin’s eyes flashed. “Don’t worry,” he said. “I
can take care of myself. My father won’t do anything
to me.”
938

cnaDp le,
16
roi te had already been out for a week.
Meghan couldn’t wait for the work crew to begin.
She knew that chopping up stumps was going to be
hard work. But it would also be fun with dozens of
other young people around. And she’d be earning
enough money to help out her family—and save up
for some new clothes for the next school year.
She showed up at the work site in the woods
wearing a floppy, blue cap pulled down over her
hair, a baggy pair of denim overalls, and a pair of her
father’s work boots. She felt strange not wearing a
skirt. Strange being outdoors in men’s clothes.
But when she saw other girls wearing slacks and
overalls, she started to relax. As she approached the
cleared area of the woods, the sound of chopping
oD

FEAR PARK
hatchets floated out to her. Eager to pick up that
dollar a day, some kids had gotten an early start.
She had signed up for the crew before school
ended. Now she joined the line of kids signing the
day’s work sheet, picking up their hatchets and their
assignments.
The line moved quickly. Kids chattered excitedly,
shouting over the steady chop of hatchets against
wood.
Dozens of kids had already begun work. They
bent over the stumps, raising their hatchets high,
chopping the stumps into splinters.
Meghan glanced around as she waited. Fallen trees
lay strewn along the edges of the clearing, waiting to
be carted away. The remaining stumps spread over
the weeds and dirt like a small, low city. Their flat,
ringed tops shone under the sparkling sunlight from
above.
As Meghan reached the front of the line, a young
man wearing a badge that read YOUTH CREW crossed
off her name, then handed her a hatchet. Meghan
grabbed the wooden handle with one hand—and
nearly dropped it.
“Heavier than you thought—right?” the young
man asked. “Always use two hands. These things can
be dangerous.” He pointed to a table behind him,
surrounded by kids. “Get your work gloves over
there. Find your size. Then just pick a stump.”
Meghan followed his instructions. A few minutes
later, she was bent over a large, round stump at the
edge of the clearing, taking a few practice chops. The
100

THE FIRST SCREAM
heavy blade sliced easily into the wood, making it
seem as soft as paper.
Meghan raised the hatchet again and again, bring-
ing it down on the edges of the stump, splintering off
chunk after chunk. The thock of the hatchet—the
thocks all around—made such a pleasant sound.
The sunlight felt good on Meghan’s face. And the
splintered wood smelled sweet and fresh.
She had chopped up nearly a third of the stump
and stopped to mop sweat off her forehead with a
handkerchief—when a shadow fell over the ground
from behind her.
She turned to see Robin Fear. He gripped a pair of
tan work gloves in one hand, a hatchet in the other.
He flashed her a shy smile. “Hi. I made it.”
Meghan brushed a mosquito off her cheek.
“Where were you?” she asked Robin. “We all started
hours ago.”
He sighed. “‘My father was all over the house. He
kept wanting to talk to me and ask me questions.
Maybe he suspected something. I don’t know. But I
couldn’t get away. Finally, I sneaked out.”
Meghan lowered her hatchet blade to the ground.
“Robin, I’m really worried about you. If your father
suspected something, won’t he notice that you’re
missing?”
Robin scowled. “I don’t care,” he replied heat-
edly. “I’m not afraid of him.” He pulled on the work
gloves. “I’m going to show him that he is wrong.
That he cannot control people’s lives. That it’s
wrong to be so selfish.”
101

FEAR PARK
He hoisted the hatchet. Meghan saw a bitter smile
spread over his face. ““That’s my speech for the day,”
he said softly. “Now where should I go?”
Meghan pointed. “We can work on the same
stump. Take the other side. See? I’ve already done a
lot of it.”
Robin dragged the hatchet blade across the
ground as he moved around the stump. Meghan
pulled up her gloves, raised the hatchet, and brought
it down hard.
“See? That’s how it’s done,” she told him.
She glanced up—and a flash of white light made
her nearly drop the hatchet.
“Sorry.” A young man in a gray suit and a
checkered cap lowered his big camera. “I’m taking
photographs for the newspaper. This is a big story in
Shadyside, you know.”
“We know,” Robin said dryly.
““Let me get a group shot,” the photographer said.
He turned and shouted. “Hey, everybody—raise
your hatchets and smile!”
A few minutes later, the photographer had fin-
ished. Meghan watched him lope away toward the
street.
Turning back to her work, she stared into the glare
of the sun. And saw somebody run up behind Robin.
Richard?
“Hey, you!” Richard called angrily.
Meghan squinted to see his face through the white
glare of sunlight. But she didn’t need to see him to
hear his rage.
102

THE FIRST SCREAM
“Richard—please!” Meghan pleaded.
“T warned you to stay away from Meghan!” Rich-
ard cried.
Meghan heard Richard utter a furious growl.
What was he doing? Was he raising his hatchet?
“Richard—no! Don’t!” Meghan shrieked.
Too late.
Squinting into the white light, she saw Richard
swing the hatchet at Robin. Swing it. Swing it so
hard.
And slice off Robin’s head.
103

cpePlep
17
66
N 0000000!”
Meghan’s moan of horror rang through the trees.
Her whole body shuddered. And her hatchet fell to
the ground as she raised both hands to her face.
The sky darkened as a high cloud rolled over the
sun. And as her eyes adjusted to the dimming light,
she saw—to her relief—that she had been wrong.
Robin had sunk to his knees to avoid the swinging
blade. He was okay.
“I warned you!” Richard was screaming wildly. “I
warned you!”
“What’s going on here?” a boy’s voice called out.
Meghan turned to see three or four boys, their faces
tight with alarm, running toward Richard.
104

THE FIRST SCREAM
Robin tried to roll out of the way. But Richard, his
face red with fury, raised his hatchet again.
“No!” Meghan’s cry was choked off by her terror.
“Stop!”” a chubby boy with short, brown hair
called.
Meghan could see others running toward them.
Could see their frightened, confused faces. Hear
their cries.
Robin climbed to his feet. Tried to dodge away.
“Stop!” the chubby boy cried. “Don’t anybody
move!”
“Freeze! Everybody freeze!” a girl shouted.
“Ohh.” Meghan gasped as Richard swung the
hatchet again.
It made a sick thunk as the blade sliced deep into
the chubby boy’s chest.
The boy’s eyes bulged in disbelief. He gazed down
at the bright red blood that flowed from his body,
straight down his front like a waterfall. Then he
collapsed to his knees, making high whimpering
sounds.
- Meghan shrieked as Richard swung again. The
blade caught the boy’s neck and cleanly lopped off
his head.
Horrified cries forced Meghan to cover her ears.
She stared at the boy’s head, lying facedown beside a
blood-splattered stump.
When she raised her eyes, she saw another boy
swing his hatchet, a two-handed blow. The blade
sank into Richard’s back.
Richard’s hands flew up as if he wanted to take off
105

FEAR PARK
and fly. He uttered a hoarse bleat as another blade
cut into his side.
Meghan heard Richard’s final groan as his eyes
turned up into his head and he sank to the dirt.
Dead.
Richard. Dead.
“What is happening?” Meghan wailed. “What is
happening?”
She tried to cover her eyes. But her hands
wouldn’t cooperate. She couldn’t move. Couldn’t
take her eyes off the scene of horror all around her.
As hatchets swung. And kids cried out.
Startled shrieks of pain.
A blade sliced off a girl’s arm at the shoulder.
Meghan watched the arm slide over the blood-
soaked dirt like some kind of snake.
Thock.
A red-haired boy grabbed for his knee. Too late. A
hatchet blade neatly sliced off his leg.
Thock. Thock.
Shrill shrieks cut through the air as hatchet blades
slashed into struggling, battling bodies.
In front of Meghan, two girls battled. Swung hard.
Sent their blades deep into each other’s sides.
What is happening? Meghan asked herself. She
started to back up, to back away, to back toward the
trees.
In front of her, she saw a frenzy of horror. Kids
chopped at one another. Swung and chopped. Swung
and chopped.
106

THE FIRST SCREAM
Until the tree stumps and the ground around them
were soaked with dark blood.
Arms lay strewn in the dirt. A head rolled to a stop
against a blood-smeared rock.
Meghan backed away. And as she moved back,
gripped in disbelief, gripped in horror, she raised her
eyes to the trees.
And saw strange, purple smoke. A purple mist
floating low over the trees.
What is happening?
What is happening?
A hand grabbed Meghan’s arm roughly. She cried
out. Turned to see Robin.
His face was smeared with dirt. His whole body
trembled. He held on to her arm as if holding
himself up.
“They’ve all gone crazy!” He had to scream over
the wails of horror and cries of pain. “It—it—it’s so
horrible! They’re chopping each other to bits!”
Meghan opened her mouth to reply, but couldn’t
choke out a sound.
“Run home!” Robin screamed. “Get away from
here, Meghan. Run home! Call the police! They’ve
all gone crazy! They’ve just gone crazy!”
“Okay!” Meghan agreed. “Okay, Robin, P’li—”
“I’m going, too,” Robin called. “I can’t stand this!
I can’t!” He spun away and ran toward the trees.
Meghan took a deep breath. Then she started to
run toward the street. .
She ran past Richard’s cut, blood-drenched body.
107

FEAR PARK
Past a work boot with a foot and leg attached: Past
the table, still piled with work gloves.
I’ve got to run home, she told herself. Got to run.
Got to run away from this.
But as she reached the trees, she turned back. And
took one last, horrified glance at the few kids still
standing, swinging their hatchets, battling each
other, flailing wildly at each other, chopping one
another to pieces.
As the purple smoke floated and swirled, floated
and swirled around them.
108

onaPle,,
18
jB Ae shut his eyes as he ran through
the purple smoke. His heart pounded. His leg mus-
cles ached and throbbed.
But he ran without slowing. Ran over upraised
tree roots and fallen limbs. Ran between the tangled,
old trees.
He knew the woods well. He had spent many
hours wandering in them.
He reached the trickling stream and turned to-
ward his house. Still running, he reached his back
lawn a few minutes later. He didn’t slow himself
until he reached the back door.
Inside, he breathlessly called to his father. “Dad!
Dad! Where are you? Dad?”
Nicholas Fear appeared in the front hallway. He
109

FEAR PARK
was dressed as usual in a dark business suit, white
shirt, and dark necktie. He carried a book in one
hand.
“Dad!” Robin wheezed. “Dad, it—it—”
“What’s wrong?” Nicholas cried. “Robin, what
happened? What is the matter?”
Robin took a deep breath. “Dad, it—it worked
perfectly,” he said. A smile spread over his face.
Nicholas narrowed his eyes at his son. “You
mean... ?”
“They chopped each other to pieces,” Robin re-
ported, his smile growing wider. He let out a laugh.
“T did everything right, Dad. And they all went wild
and hacked each other up. The park will never be
built now.”
Nicholas smiled and put a hand on Robin’s shoul-
der. “Good work, son,” he said happily. “You
learned your powers quickly.”
“Of course,” Robin replied, grinning back at his
father. “I’m a Fear.”

gst Tile,
This Year

— ee mn ag aidaeah ename s a amine -pe e a gna Seanad

nap fe,
19
&%
Ps Stop it!” Dierdre Bradley cried.
She shoved Paul Malone with all her might. But he
kept the sticky cone of pink cotton candy in her face.
He let out his high-pitched giggle.
*You’re not funny!” Dierdre screamed angrily,
shoving him again. “Give me a break.” She rubbed
her cheeks with both hands. “Now I’m all sticky.
You jerk. You got it in my hair.”
Still giggling, Paul helped her wipe the sticky spots
from her long, straight, black hair. “Leave me
alone,” Dierdre growled, glaring at him with her
green eyes.
Then, without warning, she grabbed the paper
cone from his hand and shoved the cotton candy as
hard as she could into his face.
113

FEAR PARK
Startled, Paul cried out. Then they both collapsed
against the side of a ticket booth, laughing, pulling
the sticky goo off each other.
“We're not going to test out any rides at this rate,”
Dierdre complained.
Paul leaned forward and kissed her, a long, tender
kiss. Then he grinned. “I don’t care.”
Dierdre tried to push him away. But he refused to
budge. She tugged his wavy, light-brown hair with
both hands till he cried out. They both laughed
again.
She loved the way his blue eyes crinkled up
when he laughed. He’s really great-looking, she
thought. She wished she cared about him a little
bit more.
The way he stared at her, so lovingly, made her
feel guilty.
“Tm glad I didn’t take that job upstate,” Paul said.
He leaned forward to kiss her again.
She dodged away. “You were stupid,” she told
him. “You could have made twice as much money.
Daddy is hardly paying you minimum wage to run
the Ferris wheel.”
He shrugged his broad shoulders. The silver ring
in his. ear caught the light from above the ticket
booth. “Do I care? I get to see you all summer.”
Dierdre felt another pang of guilt, a heavy feeling
in the pit of her stomach. “Well, let’s go try some
rides and things,” she urged.
She took his hand, which was rough, callused—he
114

THE FIRST SCREAM
was always building things or fiddling with cars. She
tried to tug him toward the main walk of the park.
But he was so much bigger than she, and so strong.
She felt like a dark, little mouse beside him.
“It was really great of your dad to open the park to
everyone tonight for free,” Paul said. He put a heavy
arm around Dierdre’s shoulders and started walking
slowly along the path.
“Daddy is just so excited,” Dierdre replied, wav-
ing to some friends from Shadyside High. They were
clustered around a dart-throwing booth, goofing
around, pretending to throw darts at one another.
A group of little boys raced past happily, bursting
between Dierdre and Paul. “Where is the House of
Mirrors?” Dierdre heard one of them ask.
“No. Let’s try the Inferno!” another boy insisted.
“Yeah! The Inferno!”
Music poured from the loudspeakers overhead. A
string of red and blue lights bobbed in a soft spring
breeze.
“Daddy can’t believe that Fear Park is about to
open next week,” Dierdre continued, leaning against
Paul as they walked. “It’s been over sixty years. Do
you believe it? Over sixty years since the Bradley
family had the idea to build a park here.”
Paul shook his head. Dierdre saw that he still had
pink cotton candy stuck to the side of his nose.
“Sixty years is a long time,” he said. “No wonder
your dad wanted to open the gates and let everyone
in.”
“He’s just so eager for nothing to go wrong,”
115

FEAR PARK
_ Dierdre replied. “He wants to test everything before
we open next week.”
They turned a corner and the white lights of the
Ferris wheel came into view. A line of six or seven
people waited in front of it.
“Let’s go on it,” Paul urged, pulling Dierdre by the
hand, starting to run. “You can see the whole park
from the top. Actually, you can see almost all of
Shadyside.”
‘‘Hey—aren’t you supposed to be running it to-
night?” Dierdre demanded, running to keep up with
him.
He shook his head. ““Wally is running it tonight.
Your dad gave me the night off. To show you around,
I guess.”
Dierdre laughed. She swept her straight, black hair
off her shoulders. “Do I need showing around? I
think I know every inch of this park.” -
Paul nodded. He glanced at his watch. “I have to
be in the Hatchet Reenactment Show at ten-fifteen,”
he told her. “But until then, we can do whatever we
want.”
The Hatchet Show.
Thinking about it always gave Dierdre a chill.
Why did her father want to replay that horrible,
frightening incident every night at the park? It had
happened more than sixty years ago. But the horror
of it—the horror of those poor teenagers chopping
and hacking one another to death—had never been
forgotten by the people of Shadyside.
And now, sixty years later, Fear Park had finally
116

THE FIRST SCREAM
been built in the clearing where that strange and
heartbreaking incident had taken place.
Dierdre’s father insisted that a show in which the
hatcheting was performed by actors, a vivid replay
of the whole incident, was bound to be a real crowd
pleaser, a major attraction.
Maybe he’s right, Dierdre thought. But the whole
idea had given her more than one bad dream. And
when her father asked if she wanted to perform in it,
she had replied, “Definitely not. No way!”
Thinking about the Hatchet Show, Dierdre
climbed beside Paul in one of the shiny, new Ferris
wheel seats, and felt herself being lifted toward the
star-dotted sky. Halfway up, the car jerked to a stop.
Dierdre cried out, feeling herself tossed forward as
the car rocked back and forth.
Paul laughed. “You know, running this thing is
harder than it looks,” he told her. “Other rides, you
just turn them on and let them go for three or four
minutes. The Ferris wheel, you’ve got to keep stop-
ping it, letting people on, taking people off. There’s a
lot to keep track of.”
Dierdre nodded. Paul kept talking, but her mind
wandered.
The wheel carried them to the top. She leaned
forward to peer down at all of Fear Park and the area
around it. She could see the dark woods that sur-
rounded the park. And she could make out the
streetlights along Fear Street and some of the old
houses there.
Paul slid his arm around her shoulders as the car
117

FEAR PARK
started to drop, making its slow, steady circle. She
knew she should be listening to what he was saying.
But she had so many other things to think about. It
was hard to concentrate these days, hard to concen-
trate on anything.
Below, she could see people lined up for other
rides, people leaning over the game booths, gather-
ing at the food stands.
The Wild Animal Preserve wasn’t open tonight.
But the rest of the park was lit up and running.
Dierdre wondered where her father was. Below,
she could see the long, blue trailer at the front gate
that served as his office.
Please, let everything go okay tonight, she silently
prayed.
Please—no accidents. No breakdowns. No prob-
lems.
Once again, the Ferris wheel jerked to a stop to let
on more people. Dierdre turned and saw Paul staring
at her.
“‘What’s your problem?” he demanded.
She bit her lower lip. “Excuse me?”
“J don’t think you heard a word I said,” he
accused.
“Oh. Uh...” She struggled for an excuse. “Just
thinking about the park. And Daddy. You know.
He’s had so many problems. There have been so
many weird accidents. I just want everything to go
right tonight.”
The car descended and stopped. Paul pushed up
the safety bar and they climbed out. “Hey, Wally—
118

_ THE FIRST SCREAM
smooth ride!” he called, giving the operator a
thumbs-up. “You only tossed out three riders!”
Paul and Wally laughed.
Dierdre turned and saw her father waiting for her
near the exit sign. “Hey, Dee,” he called.
He stepped into the light, a short, overweight man
with a big paunch hanging out of his short-sleeved
white shirt. He had the same black hair as Dierdre,
bushy and unbrushed. He reminded Dierdre of one
of the baby bears in the Wild Animal Preserve.
“How’s it going, Daddy?” she asked.
Jason Bradley shrugged. “So far, so good.” He had
a hoarse, raspy voice. He also sounded gruff as a
bear, Dierdre always thought.
She saw the dark circles around his eyes. Poor
Daddy, she thought. He’s aged twenty years since he
took over the park for his Uncle Timothy.
“Go ride the Inferno,” he ordered her, giving her a
gentle push in the right direction. “Hey, Paul—you
too.” He tugged Paul away from Wally. “Go ride the
Inferno. I want a full report—okay?”
Dierdre waved goodbye and obediently hurried
with Paul to test out the Inferno. As they ap-
proached, she could hear the shrieks and cries of
those already riding it.
The Inferno was the most exciting, most terrifying
roller-coaster ride in Fear Park. The ride looped
again and again, sending riders upside down at top
speeds six times. :
As Dierdre and Paul waited to climb on, she
thought about all the trouble her father had already
119

FEAR PARK
had with this ride. Just a week before, the scaffolding
holding three painters had collapsed—seemingly for
no reason at all. All three workers plunged to their
deaths.
Not the first deaths. Not the first workers to die in
the past sixty years, Dierdre knew.
There had been so many freak accidents. So many
unexplained disasters. So many people had been
killed trying to build a place where people could
relax and have fun.
Dierdre shook her head hard, trying to force away
the unpleasant thoughts.
She turned to see Paul grinning at her. “You
scared?”
Dierdre shook her head. “You’re the wimp. Not
me.”
“Hey!” he protested. ““Who’s a wimp? Come on.”
He tugged her along the platform. “Let’s sit in the
front car.”
“I don’t have a problem with that,” Dierdre
insisted.
Paul’s grin grew wider. “And no hands,” he
added. “No holding on.”
“Uh... okay,” Dierdre agreed. What choice did
she have?
The train of cars slid onto the platform, and the
two of them climbed into the front seat of the front
car. An attendant strapped on their safety belts, then
pushed a safety bar down over their laps.
The car started slowly, clattering at first. Dierdre
120

THE FIRST SCREAM
leaned forward, watching the silvery tracks glide
beneath them.
“No hands! No hands!” Paul reminded her.
They both raised their hands to the sky—as the
car bolted sharply forward. Dierdre laughed as she
felt herself tossed back hard against the plastic seat.
And then her laughter turned to a high, shrill
scream as the car shot forward, looped upside down,
spun and climbed. Then dipped. And climbed into
another loop.
She felt the blood rush to her head. Felt her heart
thud—then skip—as the car slammed her into Paul,
then tilted, sending her into the other side. Then
rose up as if toppling off the tracks, rose up, rose up,
until they dove into another loop and swung upside
down again.
“No hands! No hands!” Paul shrieked.
But Dierdre gazed over at him—and saw him
clinging with both hands wrapped tightly around the
safety bar.
“No hands! No hands!”
She laughed and shut her eyes as they looped
upside down again.
What a great ride!
Dierdre loved it—until the car roared into the
final stretch of track. Until it carried them lower,
slowing, riding straight now, riding smoothly.
And Dierdre saw the metal tracks split apart up
ahead.
Saw the tracks split.
121

FEAR PARK
Then she covered her ears. Her hands shot up to
her ears as the world exploded all around her.
_ A deafening explosion.
It rocked the car. And shattered the tracks.
“Noooooooo!” Dierdre shrieked out her horror as
the whole ride burst into a shimmering, leaping wall
of orange and yellow flames.
122

cate,
20
**N 000000000!”
Dierdre covered her face with both hands as the
car hurtled off the shattered tracks, carrying them
into the center of the flames.
*““Noo000000!”’
The squealing wheels, the thunder of the flames,
the shriek of bending metal—i t all drowned out her
cry.
Through the wall of fire.
Slowing, slowing.
She lowered her hands, her mouth still open, as
the car eased onto the platform.
And stopped in front of the next group of people
waiting to climb on.
123

FEAR PARK
“Please exit to your left,” a recorded message
repeated. “Please exit to your left.”
The safety bar rose up. Dierdre unfastened the
safety belt with trembling fingers. She struggled to
her feet, then remembered she wasn’t alone.
Stepping shakily out, she turned to Paul. He
offered her a smile. But she could see the fear in his
blue eyes. And he had gone as pale as the cement
platform.
“Wow,” he murmured, holding on to her as he
climbed out. “Wow.”
*‘Awesome finish, huh?” Dierdre said. She tried to
pretend that she hadn’t been scared out of her skin.
“T loved it. You weren’t scared too much by the fire
and the explosion, were you?” she teased.
Paul swallowed hard. His blue eyes flashed. His
color started to return. “Dierdre, don’t try to be so
cool,” he scolded. “I heard you screaming. And I
saw you cover your face.”
“Huh? I was just trying to scare you!” Dierdre
insisted.
Paul rolled his eyes. “Yeah. Right.”
“Well, it’s very real!” Dierdre declared. “I mean,
when the tracks break apart and that explosion
shakes the whole thing, and the fire—”
“That’s why they call it the Inferno,” Paul said,
laughing. He grabbed her hand. “Come on. Rides
like that make me hungry. Let’s get some hot dogs.”
Dierdre glanced at her watch. “Oh. Wow. No. I
mean. I can’t,” she stammered.
“What’s your problem?” Paul let go of her hand.
124

THE FIRST SCREAM
“ve ... got to go,” Dierdre replied awkwardly.
“I mean, I promised Daddy. I have to help him out
at the office.”
Paul’s face showed his disappointment. “But I
thought—”
“Til come see you at the Hatchet Show,” she
promised.
His mouth dropped open. “The Hatchet Show. I
almost forgot. ’'m supposed to rehearse.” He started
to back away. “Catch you later, Dee.”
“Right. Later.”
Dierdre turned and ran. Past the Ferris wheel.
Past the long row of game booths. She turned at the
end of the row and ducked into the shadows behind
the last booth.
As her eyes adjusted to the darkness, she saw Rob
waiting for her there, leaning against the back wall,
hands shoved deep in his pockets.
He stood up as she ran toward him. Threw his
arms around her. And pulled her into a long kiss.
E25

nePlep
21
&&
Siar Dierdre whispered. But she
kissed him again.
This is wrong, she thought. It’s so wrong.
Why am I doing this?
“Rob, we’ve got to stop,” she murmured, her lips
against his ear. She stepped back, still gripping his
hand.
His dark eyes burned into hers. He brushed back
his straight, brown hair. Even in the deep shadows,
she could see his intensity, his seriousness.
“It isn’t fair to Paul,” Dierdre whispered.
He shrugged.
Dierdre narrowed her eyes, studying him. He was
shorter than Paul, not as athletic, not as good-
looking.
126

THE FIRST SCREAM
He never bragged or got loud like Paul. He was
quiet, shy. Sometimes when she was with him, he
barely paid attention to her. His mind seemed to be
far away. Sometimes he barely spoke to her.
So why was she here with him now?
Why was she always sneaking off to see him?
“Have you gone on any rides or anything?”
Dierdre asked. Maybe chatting about something else
will help take away my guilty feelings, she thought.
Poor Paul. He gave up a really good summer job
to be here with me this summer. And what do I
do? I...
Rob pulled her close and kissed her again.
I care about Paul, Dierdre thought, kissing Rob
back. I know I care about Paul.
So why does Rob have such power over me?
A short while later, when Dierdre pushed open the
door to her father’s office trailer, she found it
jammed with newspaper and TV reporters.
“Ts Fear Park actually going to open next week?” a
young woman in a fashionable business suit was
asking Jason Bradley.
Dierdre’s father beamed. “Yes, after all these
years, we are finally going to open our park,” he said,
leaning close to the microphone in her hand.
Daddy is enjoying this, Dierdre.saw. She couldn’t
keep a smile from spreading across her face. He
already looks ten years younger, she thought.
‘“‘Why did you open the park tonight to the public
for free?” the young woman asked.
E2ZZ

FEAR PARK
Jason didn’t hesitate. “I wanted everyone to see
how wonderful it is,” he told her. “I wanted every-
one to see that this is a place the whole family can
visit again and again and have a wonderful time.”
“When will the Wild Animal Preserve open?” a
reporter against the back wall called out.
“Next week. The preserve will open with the rest
of the park,” Jason told him. “It will be open only in
the daytime. I would have opened it to the public
tonight, but the preserve isn’t lighted, so it would be
hard to see the many animals we have stocked. Also,
I’m still hiring staff. I don’t really have enough
workers to open the preserve tonight.”
A tall, lanky man with curly, blond hair shoved a
tape recorder into Jason’s face. ““Why has it taken so
long to open?” he demanded. “It’s been sixty
years—right?”
Jason nodded, his expression turning solemn.
“Yes, sixty years,” he murmured sadly. “Sixty years
of freak accidents. Incident after incident of unex-
plained tragedies. So many deaths. They kept us
from building the park. It was almost as if the place
was cursed. But that’s all over now,” he added
quickly.
“The project was haunted from the start. Isn’t that
right?” the reporter asked.
Dierdre’s father tried to smooth down his bushy,
black hair. But it popped right back up over his
head. He sighed.
“Yes, it started in iniesberSetehie-sf ive. That’s the
128

THE FIRST SCREAM
year they started to clear the land. They hired a
teenaged work crew. To chop up tree stumps.”
Jason frowned and lowered his eyes. “Something
happened. The kids—they all went berserk. They
started swinging their hatchets at each other, chop-
ping each other up. They—”
“But why?” the reporter interrupted.
Jason narrowed his eyes at the man: “No one
knows,” he replied softly. “It’s been over sixty years,
and no one has a clue. The kids murdered one
another. They went wild. Some kind of bizarre
frenzy. Who can explain it?”
The room suddenly grew very quiet as everyone
thought about that strange and terrifying scene of
over sixty years before. Dierdre dropped into a
folding chair. The fluorescent lights over the trailer
ceiling made everyone appear pale and slightly
green.
After a long, heavy silence, a young woman broke
the silence. “And you’ve decided to act out that
horrible scene every night in the park?” she de-
manded. Dierdre could hear the disapproval in her
voice.
Jason nodded. ‘‘We’re going to perform it three
times a night.”
“But—why?” the reporter demanded.
Jason scratched his bare arms. “Partly in tribute
to the kids who died,” he replied. “They died on this
ground. And we don’t want to forget them.”
He cleared his throat. “‘Also, it’s such a dramatic
129

FEAR PARK
story, such a mystery. An-unsolved mystery. We
know that people will be curious about it. People
will want to see it. We think the Hatchet Show will
become one of our biggest attractions.”
_A woman reporter started to ask a question. But
Jason raised both hands to silence her. “The show
has some wonderful special effects,” he continued.
“Real state-of-the-art. And we have some wonderful,
hard-working young people performing in it.”
He motioned to the trailer door. “I invite you all
to come along with me to the show arena. You will
be the first to see our Hatchet Reenactment Show.”
The reporters started to file out of the trailer. As
Jason passed Dierdre, he stopped and put a hand on
her shoulder. “Get up. Come on,” he urged. “You
have to see this.”
Dierdre didn’t want to see it. But her father stood
over her, waiting for her to join him. And she had
promised Paul she would watch him perform. She
really had no choice. .
The night had grown cooler as she walked beside
her father to the outdoor theater. Up ahead, she saw
people filing in, eager to get seats.
Dierdre shivered.
Why am I dreading this show so much? she asked
herself. Why do I suddenly have such a bad feeling
about it?
130

cnaDle,
22
|B an sat down beside her father in a
middle row of the bleachers. The reporters and TV
people squeezed around them.
Dierdre glanced around the outdoor theater. The
long benches were nearly filled. More people
streamed in through the entrance.
The bleachers circled the theater. They faced the
center, where rows and rows of tree stumps
stretched over the ground.
It really looks like a clearing in the woods, Dierdre
thought. She had seen the workers building the set,
but had never ventured in to take a look. Now she
found herself startled at how realistic the tree
stumps appeared, jutting up from the grass and
weeds.
131

FEAR PARK
She felt a chill on the back of her neck.
Was this how the clearing looked sixty years
before? Was this what those Shadyside teenagers
saw—before they hacked one another to death?
Dierdre tugged down the sleeves of her sweater.
She turned her attention to the crowd. She didn’t
want to think about what had happened on this spot.
It always made her a little sick to know she was
walking on the ground where such a horrible thing
took place.
Red and yellow lights played over the tree stumps.
Dierdre gazed at the eager, smiling faces in the
audience. In the next row, two little boys were
fighting over a big, stuffed bear, a prize from a game
booth. Their father grabbed the bear away from
them and tucked it under his arm.
“Of course we use rubber hatchets in the show,”
Dierdre heard her father tell a reporter. “But we
spent a lot of money on the effects. It’s all very real-
looking, especially the blood.”
He continued talking, but his voice was drowned
out by three teenagers in the row above, singing a
popular song at the top of their lungs.
Everyone is in such a good mood tonight, Dierdre
thought. Her eyes scanned the bleachers across the
theater. She recognized some of her classmates from
Shadyside High.
The theater lights dimmed. Dierdre started to
look away from the crowd.
But her eyes stopped on a familiar face.
She gasped as she recognized Rob.
Ea2

THE FIRST SCREAM
What is he doing here? she asked herself. Rob said
he was heading straight home. Why did he lie to me?
Why did he stay for this?
She squinted, trying to see him in the ecmeine
light. He had such a solemn expression on his face.
He stared straight ahead, his features hard, his
mouth set.
What is his problem? Dierdre wondered.
Pll have to ask him the next time I see him.
The crowd hushed as the lights dimmed. “I want
to warn everyone that it’s a pretty gruesome show,”
Dierdre heard her father tell the reporters. “If you’re
the squeamish type, you might want to hide your
eyes at the end.”
Dierdre rolled her eyes. She poked her father with
her elbow. “Daddy,” she whispered in his ear,
“don’t oversell it. Don’t give it too big a buildup.”
He grinned at her. “I’m not.”
Trumpet music blared on the loudspeakers. A
purple light rolled over the ground. The tree stumps
shone eerily in the dark light.
Dierdre saw the performers lining up at one side
of the theater. She searched for Paul. But it was too
dark to see any of the actors’ faces.
She wondered if Paul was nervous. He didn’t want
to perform in the show. He was happy manning the
controls on the Ferris wheel.
But her father had forced Paul to be in the show.
He liked his workers to have more than one job. It
saved him money. “It’s a good experience for you,”
Jason told Paul.
133

FEAR PARK
Paul couldn’t argue. He didn’t want to lose his
Ferris wheel job. After all, he’d given up a really
good job to work in the park and be close to Dierdre.
Dierdre shook those thoughts from her mind. She
leaned forward, crossing her arms in front of her,
and concentrated on the show.
The stumps rose under purple and blue lights as
the teenagers lined up to be handed their hatchets.
Dressed in work clothes of the 1930s, they chatted
and laughed.
Dierdre watched them walk casually across the
ground, between the rows of stumps. They all ap-
peared happy and eager to get to work.
A taped voice on the speaker system talked about
the Great Depression and told about how poor the
kids were, how happy they were to be paid a dollar a
day.
“Hey!” Dierdre cried out when she finally spotted
Paul. He was wearing work boots, and baggy, blue
denim overalls with a long-sleeved white sweatshirt
underneath. His face was half hidden by a gray wool
cap.
Dierdre had an urge to wave and call out to him.
But she clamped her mouth shut and watched. Paul
had the hatchet slung over his shoulder. He walked
slowly to the center of the clearing, chatting with a
girl in baggy, khaki work pants and a red bandanna.
As the announcer talked about how one hundred
acres of woods had to be cleared, the performers all
began to work. They circled the big tree stumps,
134

THE FIRST SCREAM
raised their rubber hatchets, and began to hack and
chop away.
Sound effects filled the theater with the heavy
thud of hatchet blades and the crack of splintering
wood. The kids chopped away.
Dierdre watched Paul raise his hatchet, then swing
it down. His cap fell off as he raised the hatchet
again, and his light brown hair tumbled over his
face. Again, he brought the hatchet down, working
hard.
Heavy, ominous music—low chords on an
organ—rose over the sounds of chopping wood.
Dierdre crossed her arms tighter against her, as if to
protect herself. She knew the frightening part was
about to begin.
The blue and purple lights dimmed.
A purple mist floated up over the clearing.
Where is it coming from? Dierdre wondered.
Swirls of purple smoke drifted over the performers
as they chopped away.
Dierdre turned to her dad. ““Good smoke effect,”
she whispered.
He smiled, but kept his eyes straight ahead on the
performance.
The solemn music grew louder as the purple
smoke hovered over the clearing. The entire theater
began to vibrate from the heavy chords.
Louder, louder.
Dierdre stared into the purple smoke: The work-
ers suddenly didn’t seem real. Half hidden in the
135

FEAR PARK
smoke, they appeared to be shadows, the shadows of
workers, raising their shadowy hatchets, bringing
them down blindly in the thickening purple mist.
And then she saw a fight break out.
Two boys shouting angrily. She couldn’t make out
the words over the thunder of dark music.
But she saw the first boy swing his hatchet.
Saw it catch the other boy in the side. Saw the
injured boy toss up his hands as bright red blood
spurted out of his side.
And then more hatchets were swinging.
Kids screamed.
And chopped at one another.
An arm dropped to the ground.
Dierdre heard the crowd gasp. She heard cheers
mixed with cries of horror, shrieks of fright.
“Great effects,” a reporter leaned forward and
told Dierdre’s father. ““Wow. So real!”
Dierdre shuddered. It’s too real, she thought.
But she couldn’t take her eyes off the horrifying
scene.
Hatchets sliced into bodies. A head toppled to the
ground, bounced off a blood-spattered tree stump.
The performers howled and shrieked as they went
at one another, chopping and hacking, falling in
agony, dying with loud cries and groans. And the
dark red blood flowed over the flat stumps, between
them, over the grass and weeds.
Dierdre swallowed hard. It was so gross! So gross
and frightening.
She raised her eyes to the audience around her.
136

THE FIRST SCREAM
Saw how much they enjoyed it. Heard their cheers.
Their excited cries.
When she turned back to the scene of horror, she
saw Paul go down. A hatchet caught him in the back.
He tossed up his hands and fell face forward over a
stump.
He didn’t move.
The purple mist swirled. The music droned.
As the last victim toppled to the ground, the
crowd began to cheer. The purple smoke faded. The
music reached a crescendo, then faded too.
The crowd applauded and cheered.
Dierdre stared at the horrifying scene, at the
blood-soaked ground, at the bodies strewn all over
the clearing.
So real, she thought, still hugging herself. So real.
Too real.
She realized she hated the show.
It was just too ugly, too frightening.
She liked going to gross horror movies with Paul.
And scary movies on TV. They didn’t upset her
because they weren’t real.
But real kids died here, Dierdre thought. Sixty
years ago, real kids chopped one another up. Not a
bunch of actors.
And no one watched and applauded.
In fact, a lot of people must have cried. A lot of
lives must have been ruined. A lot of families must
have been shattered. A lot of tears must have fallen
for months, maybe years afterward.
But now the crowd was standing, cheering, laugh-
137

FEAR PARK
ing, and applauding. Even the reporters had risen to
applaud.
Dierdre stood up too, and watched the performers
climb to their feet to take their bows.
They looked so terrible, picking themselves up
from the ground, many of them appearing to have an
arm or leg missing. All of them smeared with red
dye, or whatever they used for blood.
One by one, they climbed to their feet and formed
a line. Bowing, accepting the wild cheers of the
audience.
One by one. Except for Paul.
Paul?
Dierdre stared at his unmoving body, sprawled
over a tree stump, hands dangling to the ground.
Not moving. Not moving.
“Paul?” she screamed. “Paul?”
Without even realizing it, she began running down
the bleacher aisle, running onto the clearing. Arms
outstretched. Screaming as she ran.
“Paul? Get up, Paul! Get up!”
138

cnaDPle,,
23
| ea caught the startled glances of
the performers as she burst into the clearing. She
heard gasps from the crowd.
Did they finally see that Paul wasn’t getting up?
“Paul? Paul? Are you okay?”
Her sneakers slid in a puddle of dark red dye and
she nearly fell right on top him.
“Paul? Paul?”
He turned toward her, his features tight with pain,
and groaned.
*‘Paul—what’s wrong?” Dierdre demanded
shrilly. “What happened?”
He opened his mouth. But only another groan
came out.
139

FEAR PARK
He sucked in a deep breath. “Cramp in my side,”
he finally choked out.
Dierdre’s mouth dropped open. “Huh?”
“Cramp in my side,” Paul repeated, sounding a
little stronger. “I think I pulled a muscle when I fell
onto the stump.”
Dierdre let out a long sigh. “Oh, wow. I
thought . . .” Her voice trailed off. She wasn’t sure
what she thought.
Rubbing his side, Paul hoisted himself to his feet.
The crowd applauded. He took a bow. Everyone
laughed.
“This show is dangerous!” Paul declared, grinning
at her.
“Are you okay?” she asked, her heart still
pounding.
He nodded.
She threw her arms around his shoulders and
kissed him.
And over his shoulder she saw a face. A face in the
audience. A face she Knew.
Rob’s face. Staring hard at them. Not blinking.
Not moving.
Watching them.
140

cnaPley,
24
“te
addy, I don’t believe you!”
Dierdre cried. “Wasn’t one free sneak preview
enough?”
Jason Bradley turned from the stack of papers on
his desk. He looked pale and drawn. But he grinned
at Dierdre and shrugged his broad shoulders.
“Tt went so well last night,”’ he said. His chubby
fingers thumped the desktop. “I’m still excited.
Look at me, Dee. I can’t calm down.”
“And so .. .?” Dierdre started.
“So I had to open up the park again tonight. ’'m
too wired to sit around and wait till next week. One
more sneak preview. One more free night for the
public. Did you see the news stories on TV?”
-Dierdre nodded. “Yes, I saw the stories. I was
141

FEAR PARK
home with you, remember? We watched them to-
gether.”
“Oh. Yeah. Right.” Jason raked a hand back
through his bushy hair. “You see how crazed I am? I
don’t even remember my own daughter!”
They both laughed. Dierdre stepped up behind
him and gave him a hug.
“I know how happy you are, Daddy,” she said
tenderly. “I’m happy, too. After so many years and
so many problems, your dream is finally coming
true.”
When he turned to her, Jason had tears in his eyes.
“Now it’s going so well,” he said. “After last night, I
knew we were finally okay.”
Dierdre hugged him again. She glanced at the
clock on his desk. “Oh. Wow. I’ve got to run. I
promised Paul I’d meet him by the front gate before
the park opened.”
“Tonight is Paul’s first night running the Ferris
wheel,” her father said, turning back to his papers.
“He’s very excited about it,” Dierdre told him.
“He likes it better than getting hatcheted in the back
and having to throw himself over a tree stump.”
Jason laughed. “Who wouldn’t?”
Dierdre ran out of the trailer. The door slammed
shut behind her.
She stepped into a cool, gray evening, a pale
crescent moon just rising over the trees beyond the
park. She took a deep breath, inhaling the sweet
aroma of cotton candy and freshly popped popcorn.
Park workers scurried to their places. The park
142

THE FIRST SCREAM
was scheduled to open in about twenty minutes for
its second night free to the public.
Dierdre shook her head, thinking about her father
and how out of control he was. He’s totally lost it,
she told herself.
And she was glad.
Her smile dimmed as Rob popped into her mind.
She had called him at his house earlier in the
afternoon. He sounded very surprised to hear from
her.
“I saw you last night. At the Hatchet Show,”
Dierdre had told him.
“Oh. Yeah. Right,” he had stammered awkwardly.
“How come you went?” Dierdre demanded. ‘“‘You
told me you were going straight home.”
“It looked interesting, that’s all,” Rob replied. “I
was passing by, and I saw everyone going in. So I
went in, too.”
“But you had such a serious look on your face—”
Dierdre started. “I thought—”
“J didn’t know what to expect,” Rob cut in. “I
mean, I didn’t know the story or anything. Then
when everyone started swinging their hatchets, and
it got so bloody—lI guess I was upset or something. I
couldn’t believe it. I mean, all those heads being
chopped off and—”
“It’s really gross, isn’t it?” Dierdre commented.
“Yeah,” Rob agreed. “I—I can’t believe it really
happened. I mean, how can that be a true story?”
They chatted a while longer about the park. As
they talked, Dierdre’s feelings of guilt returned. Paul
143

FEAR PARK
cared about her so much. He had even talked about
them choosing a college together so they wouldn’t be
separated when they graduated from Shadyside
High.
She liked Paul, too. She liked him a lot.
So why was she so drawn to Rob?
Why had she been sneaking off with this boy she
knew so little about?
~ “Can I see you later? At the park?” Rob had asked
on the phone that afternoon.
“Uh... well...” Dierdre hesitated. “I don’t
think so,” she replied finally. “I’m meeting Paul
before the gates open. And then—”
“Paul, Paul, Paul,” Rob had murmured.
“Excuse me?” Dierdre cried.
“T’ve got to get off,” Rob said sharply. “Maybe I'll
see you later.”
“But I already told you. ’'m meeting Paul and—”
“Later,” Rob insisted. And hung up.
Now Dierdre’s eyes searched the main gate for
Paul. Not there. The ticket takers were entering the
small, round booths. Dierdre guessed they were just
practicing. No tickets were needed tonight. The park
was free.
Dierdre paced back and forth for a few minutes.
Where is he? she wondered. The park is about to
open. He should have been here a while ago.
Maybe we got our signals crossed, she decided.
Maybe he thought 'd meet him at the Ferris
wheel.
144

THE FIRST SCREAM
Yes. That makes sense. Paul has to be on duty
there. He’s probably waiting for me.
Dierdre turned and started to jog toward the rides
area. She passed her father’s trailer office and kept
running. A few seconds later, she turned a corner
onto the main walkway.
The Ferris wheel, white lights blazing its outline,
came into view.
Weird, Dierdre thought, jogging past a row of
game booths. Paul has the wheel already turning. He
didn’t wait for the park to open.
Maybe he’s just giving it a practice spin, she
thought. The lights look so beautiful against the
evening sky.
“Oh!” Dierdre cried out, and stopped running,
when she noticed something strange about the spin-
ning Ferris wheel.
It wasn’t spinning smoothly.
It bumped. The cars rocked back and forth.
She watched it spin for a few seconds. Then bump.
Spin. Then bump.
Is it broken? she wondered. Why is it doing that?
Does Paul realize that the wheel is spinning so
raggedly?
Keeping her eyes on the wheel, Dierdre ran the
rest of the way. “Hey, Paul? Paul? Are you here?”
she shouted, running up the narrow path on the side
that led up to the control panel.
“Paul?”
No one at the controls.
145

FEAR PARK
She spun back to the wheel. Why was it going with
no one at the control panel?
The big wheel spun. Then bumped. Spun. Then
bumped.
Dierdre heard a soft thud each time it bumped.
She took a few steps toward the wheel. Then
stopped.
And stared under the wheel. Under the wheel.
At the shoes under the wheel. The legs.
Under the wheel. What was under the wheel?
She took another step. Stared harder.
Then started to scream.
146

qnaPle,,
25
Pa head had been neatly sliced off.
It lay on its side on the pavement, wide-eyed, light-
brown hair matted down, the open throat emptying
out onto the walk.
Gasping for breath, her hands pressed against her
cheeks, Dierdre forced herself to turn away from it.
' And once again, she saw Paul’s body jammed
under the wheel. The shoes poking out. The legs.
The rest of Paul.
Bump. Bump.
The legs and shoes jumped up as each car bumped
over the body.
As if alive, Dierdre thought. The shoes keep
jumping—as if Paul is alive!
Bump. Bump. ee
147

FEAR PARK
Paul’s body made the big wheel skip. Slide, then
skip. Each car tilted and rocked as it bumped over
what was left of him.
“Nooooooo!” Dierdre wailed. “Nooooo00. Not
Paul. Not Paul!”
She watched the shoes jump up one more time.
Then she staggered away, tears blinding her, burn-
ing her eyes.
A figure hurried up to meet her.
Rob!
He wrapped his arms around her. Held her tightly,
trying to stop her sobs, her trembling, her tears.
“It’s okay, Dee,” Rob whispered tenderly. Lead-
ing her away. Leading her away from the horror.
“It’s okay. I’m here now. I'll take care of you, Dee.
I'll take good care of you now.”
“When will the park open, Daddy?” Dierdre
asked as her father stepped out of the office trailer.
Two weeks later. And the police still covered the
park, investigating Paul’s strange death.
An accident? Murder?
The park couldn’t open until the question was
answered.
Jason shrugged wearily. Just looking at him made
Dierdre feel sad. All the life had drained from his
eyes. He hunched his shoulders as he walked, like an
old man.
Like a defeated man.
He had come so close to his dream. And now
another tragedy had delayed it—maybe forever.
148

THE FIRST SCREAM
He sighed. “The police think maybe we can open
in a few weeks,” he told her, speaking so faintly she
could barely hear him.
“That’s good news,” Dierdre replied, trying to
sound cheerful.
“But a lot of the workers quit,” Jason said, shak-
ing his head. “They said Fear Park is jinxed. They
don’t want to work here. I have no one for the food
stands. No one to work half the games. No one to
run the Ferris wheel. . .”
“T think I could do that.” A voice broke into their
conversation.
Dierdre turned to see Rob standing beside her.
His dark hair was carefully brushed. He wore a dark
tie over a pale-blue shirt.
He’s applying for a job, Dierdre realized.
She saw her father eye Rob suspiciously.
“This is Rob,” she said quickly. “He’s a friend of
mine, Daddy.”
Jason’s expression softened a bit. “Rob?”
Rob nodded shyly. “Well, actually,” he offered
reluctantly, “my name is Robin. Robin Fear,
sir.”
Jason’s eyes widened in surprise. “A Fear?” he
demanded sharply. “Are you related to the Fear
family?”
Robin shrugged. “I think I’m a distant cousin,” he
told Dierdre’s father. “I’m really not sure.”
Jason studied him carefully. “And you think you
can operate the Ferris wheel?”
Robin nodded. His dark eyes flashed excitedly.
149

FEAR PARK
“Oh, yes, sir,” he replied. “Ill try my best, Mr.
Bradley. I'll work really hard.”
Dierdre saw a strange smile spread over Robin’s
face. “I’ve waited a Jong time for this job!” he
exclaimed.
150

MosM esnes
is

cnaPle,,
1
“D
ierdre, look out!” Robin Fear
grabbed Dierdre Bradiey’s arm and pulled her to a
stop.
She gasped, startled.
“Sorry, I didn’t mean to scare you,” Robin told
her. “You were about to step in that mud puddle.”
Dierdre glanced down at the deep pool of muddy
water inches from her feet. “Thanks, Rob. I didn’t
even notice it.”
“No wonder.” Robin patted her arm tenderly.
Dierdre’s green eyes didn’t sparkle the way they
usually did. Her long, stradiarkg bhrowtn ,ha ir
hung limply. Her face sagged with sadness.
Robin follohwere gdaz e. The two of them stood
in the middle of Shadyside Cemetery where Paul
Malone, Dierdre’s boyfriend, had just been buried.
The graveside service was over. Almost everyone
had left. .
1

FEAR PARK
around the headstones like smoke. A drop of water
splashed onto Robin’s head, and he glanced up.
Thick gray clouds covered the sky. The rain had let
up for the moment. But the ground was a swamp,
and moisture drifpromp tehe dtree s.
“I feel as if ’'m in a horrible nightmare,” Dierdre
declared. “I still can’t believe Paul is dead.”
Robin felt her trembling. He slid his arm around
her shoulders and turned her away from the sight of
the fresh grave. “Come on, let’s get out of here,” he
urged. “The sky looks ready to open up on us
“{ don’t know what ['d do without you, Rob.”
Dierdre leaned against him as they slowly made
their way along the cemetery path.
“Hey, I haven’t done anything special,” he pro-
tested.
“Yes you have. Just being with me helps.” Dier-
dre’s lips trembled. “I still can’t believe he’s gone.
And the way he died!” She shuddered.
Robin squeezed her shoulder, but didn’t re-
spond. In his mind, he pictured Paui Malone as
he’d last seen him.
Crushed beneath a giant Ferris wheel.
His head—slofif.c Hies dle gs splayed out, wig-
gling and jerking each time the cars of the giant
wheel passed over his broken, lifeless body.
2

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Robin sighed. He would never forget that sight.
“I know how you feel,” he murmured to Dierdre.
“But try to force it out of your mind.”
“I can’t help it!” Dierdre cried. “Every time I
shut my eyes, I see him lying there.” She shivered
and leaned closer to Robin. “I don’t know if Pll
ever be able to enjoy Fear Park.”
“I don’t blame you,” Robin said softly.
“So many horrible things have happened ever
since my family decided to build an amusement
park here,” Dierdre declared. “My grandfather was
killed. Then those kids who were clearing the land
went totally crazy and chopped each other to pieces
scaffold that killed all those painters. Now Paul is
dead, and I can’t help wondering what’s going to
happen next!”
“[’ve been wondering the same thing,” Robin
admitted. “You know, there’s an old story that
Nicholas Fear put a curse on the land.”
“A curse?”
Robin shook his head. “I know it sounds crazy,
but maybe it’s true. Maybe all the tragedies are
some kind of warning that the curse is real.”
He glanced at her out of the corner of his eye.
Did she believe the storyof the curse? He couldn’t
tell. “It makes me wonder if Fear Park should
opehne ,ad”ded .

FEAR PARK
Dierdre stopped walking and stared at him.
“You mean not open at all? Not ever?”
“J guess that’s what I mean,” he admitted.
“Wdho yaou tthin k?”
“['m not sure. But it doesn’t matter what I
think,” she said. “My father is the one in charge.”
Robin frowned. “And he’s going ahead with the
opening, even after what happened to Paul?”
~ Dierdre nodded. “He feels awful, naturally. But
he’s definitely going to open the park.”
Robin’s hands curled into fists. The park was
actually going to open! He couldn’t believe it!
More than sixty years before, a Bradley had
come up with the idea of Fear Park—a huge
amusement park to be built in the Fear Street
Woods.
But a Fear—Nicholas Fear—claimed that the
Fear Street Woods belonged to the Fears. He had
oppotshee pdark .
Violently.
The town had ruled in Bradley’s favor.
And now, sixty years later, Jason Bradley—
Dierdre’s father—planned to open Fear Park in a
few days.
Robin’s hands shook with fury. But he forced
them to relax. He took several deep breaths, until
he was sure Dierdre wouldn’t hear the anger in his
voice.
“Maybe you could talk to your father,” he sug-
4

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
gested to her. “Tell him how you feel. Get him to
chahnis gmiend. ”
“Forget it,” Dierdre told him. “Daddy won't let
anythsitonp ghi m from opentihen pgar k. And I
don’t blame him. I mean, he’s worked so long for it.
It’s his dream, Rob.”
Yes, Robin thought. Fear Park is Jason Bradley’s
dream.
Too bad.
Because that dream will become a nightmare if
the park doesn’t shut down forever.
Pil make sure of it.
Pll do whatever it takes to ruin things for Jason
Bradley. To make his life miserable. Pil kill again if
I have to.
After all, I already killed Paul. And all those kids
back in the °30s. Why not someone else?
Robin’s lips curled in a small, satisfied smile.
He’d killed Paul to make trouble for the Bradleys.
He’d kill again. Again and again and again.
Whatever it takes, he thought to himself.
He turned to Dierdre. She leaned against him,
her head pressing against his arm.
_She’s so trusting, Robin thought scornfully. She
has no idea I was responsible for Paul’s hideous
death. She thinks I’m her friend. She thinks Pm
more than afr iend.
As they passed through the cemetery gate, Dier-
dre sighed again. “I guess you’re right, Rob. I really
cS)

FEAR PARK
have to try to forget the way Paul looked when
he... died. That’s not the way I want to remem-
ber him.”
“Right,” Robin agreed. “Try to blot it out of
your mind.” He squeezed her shoulder, thinking.
Maybe he’d wasted his time on Paul. After all, Paul
Malone didn’t mean much to Dierdre’s father.
But Dierdre was another story. Dierdwars eth e
“apple of her father’s eye.
Maybe he should kill Dierdre. It woulbed s o
much fun to watch Jason Bradley suffer over the
death of his precious daughter. He’d have to think
about that.
“Paul was so full ofl ife.” Dierdre sighed, inter-
rupting Robin’s thoughts. “He had his bad points.
Heb raggea dlo t. But he had a ton ofe nergy.”
Not anymore, Robin thought.
“And he was so athletic,” Dierdre continued
with a sad smile. “Basketball, swimming, track. He
was good at all of them.”
“Mmm,” Robin murmured. He wished she’d
shut up. Paul Malone was history. He was sick of
hearing about him.
“I can just see him now, finishing the cross-
country race last year against Waynesbridge High.”
Dierdre’s voice became more lively. “A bunch of
us were waitiant gth e finish line. Then we hearda
loud shout. I looked up and there was Paul. Way
ahead of the pack.”
6

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
He still is, Robin thought with a sneer. Nobody
else in his group has died.
Not yet, anyway.
“And he didn’t even look tired,” Dierdre said.
“He had a big grin on his face and.. .”
Dierdre broke off. Robin felt her body tense.
“There he is!” she cried. “It— it’s Paul! Here he
comes! It’s Paul!”
Robin’s head snapped up. His body went cold as
he followed Dierdre’s gaze.
A guy strode quickly toward them down the
sidewalk. Tall, with broad shoulders. Wavy dark
blond hair. A silver ring glinting in his ear.
Paul Malone.

naPley,
2
Roses heart poundedH.e fought to
keep himself from screaming.
It can’t be! his mind shrieked. It’s impossiblel.
Paul is dead. I know it. I killed him!
Something must have gone wrong. Horribly
Robin felt Dierdre’s cold hand grasp his.
He watched as Paul Malone advanced on them,
his dark tie whipping back in the breeze. His eyes
narrowetdo slits.
Coming closer.
Closer.
“Oh!” Dierdre gasped again. She squeezed Rob-
in’s hand.
Robin closed his eyes. Braced himself.
And then Dierdre let out a startled laugh.
Robin turned and stared at her. How could she
laugh? Had she gone totally crazy?

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
“Oh, wow!” Dierdre exclaimed. “It’s not Paul.
It’s Jared!”
Robin licked his lips. “Who’s Jared?”
“Paul’s brother,” Dierdre explained. “He’s a
year younger. I can’t believe how much they look
alike. They could be twins, couldn’t they?”
A younger brother. A younger, look-alike broth-
er. Robin felt a flood of relief wash over him.
“Definitheel ryep,li”ed . “They could definitelbye
twins.”
But they’re not.
Paius dlea d.
Calm again, Robin peered through the fog at
Jared Malone.
“Jared is kind of wild,” Dierdre murmured.
“He’s always getting into trouble. Paul told me he
has a terrible temper. And see those three guys
behind him?”
Robin nodded. Three guys, uncomfortable in
their dark-colored funeral suits, leaned against the
wrought-iron fence of the cemetery, watching
Jared.
“Those are his buddies. Joey is the short one.
Steve has the ponytail, and Kevin is the one with
the muscles. They’re even wilder than he is.”
Dierdre squeezed Robin’s hand again. “Paul tried
to get him to drop these guys. But Jared wouldn’t. I
guess he’s kind of stubborn.”
At the moment, Jared looked furious as well as
9

FEAR PARK |
stubborn. His squjaawr juette d angrily. And as he
drew to a stop in front of them, his blue eyes glared
menaciant gDilerdyre .
“Jared, what is it?” Dierdre asked. “Why are you
staatr mei linke tghat ?”
“Why do you think?” Jared snarled. “My broth-
er’s dead. We just buried him. And whose fault do
you thiint kis? ”
- Dierdre shook her head. “It wasn’t ee
fault. It was a terrible accident.”
“Yeah, right.” Jared’s lips curled in a sneer. «]
should have guessed you’d say that. I should have
guessed you’d stick up for your dad!”
“What are you talking about?” Dierdre cried.
“Oh, come off it!” Jared snapp“I’em tdal.kin g
about how Paul wouldn’t be dead if your father
didn’t care so much about his stupid amusement
park!”
Robin felt a surge of pleasure. So Jared blamed
the Bradleys for Paul’s death. Great! A few more
deaths and disasters, and everybody would be
screaming at Bradley to close the park.
“That park is the only thing on his mind,” Jared
went on. “He just has to get it open. And if
somebody dies because your father is too lazy or
cheap to make sure the equipment’s running right
.« - w ell, too bad! I mean, what does one dead body
matter? We'll still have Fear Park!”
“That’s not true!” Dierdre shrieked. “My father
10

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
feels terrible about Paul. He had that Ferris wheel
cheocvekr aend dove r. It was running right! Paul
was the one he hired to operate it. And Paul would
have told him if something was wrong!”
Jared’s eyes flashed angrily. “Oh, so now it’s
Paul’s fault, huh?”
“I didn’t mean that and you know it!” Dierdre
shot back. “It was nobody’s fault.”
“Wrong.” Jared stubbornly shook his head back
and forth. “It’s somebody’s fault, all right. You
know what I think? I think maybe I should talk to
him about it.”
“To ... to Daddy?”
“Yeah. Somebody has to tell him he’s a killer!”
Jared shouted. He spun away from her and sprinted
down the sidewalk toward his buddies.
Dierdre turned to Robin. “I can’t believe this!”
she cried, her expression worried and frightened.
“If he really says those things to Dad’s face, there’s
going to be major trouble.”
Good, Robin thought. The more trouble for
Bradley, the better.
“Jared was upset,” he told Dierdre, his voice
smooth and comforting. “I think he just had a lot
of steam to blow off, and he did it with you. He'll
cool down now.”
“Maybe. But he scares me, Rob.” Dierdre shud-
dered as they began walking. “I’m afraid he’s so
angry he might do something terrible.”
11

FEAR PARK
“J think he’s just talk,” Robin assured her.
“Come on, Pll walk you home. You'll feel better
once you’re warm and dry.”
Robin slid his arm around Dierdre’s shoulder,
and she leaned against him. He smiled, thinking
how much power he had over her.
As they passed a parked car, Robin’s smile
suddenly froze.
~ That face! That face reflected in the car window!
One half of it was his. Robin Fear’s pale, young
face. Straight brown hair. Intense, dark eyes.
The other half was his, too. But the sight ofi t
sent a shiver of horror down his spine.
Wrinkles like cracked, dried-up gullies twisted
through the sagging flesh of his cheek.
Deep lines at the corners of his eye and mouth
looked as if they’d been gouged with a knife. _
His cheekbone jutted out from under the skin.
His eye was sunk deep behind a ridge of bone.
And his skin! The deep, bluish-purple of a
bruise, his skin sagged and rippled and seemed
ready to slide off his skull.
Staring into the car window, Robin could almost
smell the stench of decay.
Robin gasped.
Had Dierdre seen it? Has she seen the decayed
half of my face?
Do I have to kill her now?
12

cpePle,
3
FRcou quickly turned partway to
Dierdre.
She stared straight ahead, frowning.
Probably still thinking about Paul, Robin de-
cided. Or worried about Jared. It didn’t matter.
All that mattewasr tehatd s he hadnse’en thi s
face.
But he had to get away from her now. Before she
did see the decaying half of his head.
Dropping his arm from Dierdre’s shoulders,
Robin came to a sudden stop. He turned away,
covering the rotting half of his face with a hand.
“Rob, what is it?” Dierdre asked. “What’s
He let ouat lo w moan. “My head,” he mumbled.
“I get these migraines sometimes. They can be
pretty bad.”
13

FEAR PARK
“I think I have some aspirin in my bag,” Dierdre
told him. “Let me look...”
“Don’t bother!” Robin sucked air in through his
teeth. “Aspirin doesn’t do any good. The only thing
that helps is to lie down in a dark room. Listen,
Dierdre, I'd better get home fast. Will you be okay?
I mean, I wanted to walk you home, but...”
Robin let his voice trail off and moaned again.
~ “Don’t be ridiculous,” Dierdre told him. “I
don’t feel like going home yet, anyway. I want to
walk a little and think about Paul by myself.”
She put her hand on his shoulder and gently
rubbed it. “You go ahead, Rob. And thanks for
everything.”
Robin nodded, as if he hurt too much to speak.
He groaned softly and shuffled away. When he
reached the end of the block, he took a chance and
glanced behind him.
Dierdre was nowhere in sight.
Robin raced around the corner. Down another
block. The rain started up again, the cold drops
pelting his head and face.
His face! Robin reached up to feel it. The decay
was worse now. His fingers slid deep into the slimy,
rotting flesh, as if he were poking at a slug. He
shuddered and yanked his hand away. What had
gone wrong?
At last he came to Fear Street. His father’s huge
stone house loomed out of the mist. Behind it rose
14

‘THE LOUDEST SCREAM
the dark, twisted trees of the Fear Street Woods.
And way beyond that—but still too close—Robin
could see the top of Fear Park’s giant Ferris wheel.
Don’t think about that now! You’ll take care of
the park soon enough. First, take care of yourself!
He hurtled across the sweeping lawn. Then burst
in through a side door into the pantry.
Taking great gulps of the mansion’s musty air,
Robin pounded down the dimly lit hall and into
the library. Gray light seeped through gaps in the
thick velvet drapes. An enormous stone fireplace
took up one wall. Floor-to-bcooekciaslesi nligne d
the other three.
Robin hurried across the Oriental rug to the far
wall and climbed the ladder up to the second level
of books.
A collection of ancient, leather-bound volumes
stood between two marble bookends. Books on the
occult and the dark arts. Robin’s fingers raced over
their gold-lettered spines as he searched for the
right volume.
Whewrase i t? Whewrase i t?
There! Robin grasped the slendboeokr o f chants
and spells with shaking fingers and tugged it out.
He clambered down the ladder and strode to the
fireplace.
A silver urn studded with precious stones stood
on the center of the mantel. Slender handles wid-
ened at the top to become the open jaws of snarling
15

FEAR PARK
lions. Robin tucked the book under one arm and
carried it and the urn to the claw-footed library
table on the far side of the room.
He lifted the lid from the urn. A bittersweet odor
drifted up as he paged rapidly through the book.
There it was—the immortalistpeyll . The spell
Robin had been using since 1935 to keep himself
seventeen forever.
~ The spell that kept him alive and young and
strong.
~~ Robin closed his eyes and began to chant.
Purple smoke began to drift around the room.
Thin at first, it grew denser and denser until it
became a swirling, purple mass that filled the entire
room.
The spell was working its magic.
Robin dipped his fingers into the urn.
Slowly, he spread the thick, bittersweet-smelling
croento ahism han ds.
As he continued the chant, he scooped up more
of the cream and began rubbing it onhtis ofac e. It
burned when it hit the rotting flesh. But Robin
ignored the pain. Pain was a small price to pay for
immortality.
Gradually, Robin felt his skin begin to tighten.
The grooves and wrinkles smoothed out. The jut-
ting bones sank back behind the youthful flesh of a
teenager.
Robin finished the ancient chant and took a deep
16

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
breath. The smell of decay disappeaHre eopden.e d
his eyes. The purple smoke was thinning now. A
few lavender curls drifted lazily through the room,
then vanished.
The immortality spell had worked its magic
again.
Robin smitlo heimdsel f.
Then he froze. What was that? A noise that
didn’t belong.
He heard it again! A shuffling sound at the
library door.
Robin’s heartbeat thudded loudly in his ears.
He’d left the door open. He’d been in such a hurry
to work the spell that he’d forgotten to shut himself
in here.
Someone had witnessed him working the im-
mortality spell. Seen the purple smoke and heard
the chant. Watched his face magically transform
from the decay of death to the firm flesh of youth.
He wasn’t alone.
Someone had sneaked into the house.
Slowly, he turned to the door.
17

aPle,,
A
Peace doorway.
Long, wavy red hair framed the young, smiling
face of Meghan Fairwood.
“Don’t sneak up on me like that!” Robin
snapped. “I didn’t even know you were there. You
scared me!”
“Sorry. I didn’t mean to, Robin.” Meghan’s
smile faltear leitdtl e. But then she tossehde r
coppery hair back and stepped into the room. Her
glance fell on the urn and the book of spells. “How
come yoube’en vworekin g the spell?I t hought you
were supposed to do it last week.”
“T was, but I forgot,” Robin admitted. “Half my
face started to go. I almost didn’t make it home in
time!”
“Oh, Robin! I wish you wouldn’t wait so long
between your treatments!” she cried. “What if you
18

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
didn’t use the spell in time? What would I do
then?”
Meghan’s eyes filled with tears. She ran across
the room into Robin’s arms. Her silky hair brushed
his cheek. Her hair smelled of flowers. It was her
shampoo, Robin knew. The shampoo Meghan had
used ever since he’d known her.
Ever since they'd been teenagers together—back
in 1935.
Meghan was the one person I brought with me
into immortality, Robin thought. After all this
time, we’re still together. I can’t believe it.
Tightening her arms around his neck, Meghan
snuggled close to him, planting little kisses on his
neck. Then she leaned back and gazed at him with
love in her eyes.
“Tm glad you’re back,” she told him. “I get so
lonely when you’re gone.”
“J had things to do, Meghan. You know that.”
“Oh, sure... I know!” Meghan leaned against
the table and watched as Robin put away the book
and the urn. “So how did it go? Were you able to
protect the Bradleys and Fear Park for one more
day?”
Robin forced an exhausted sigh. “Battling the
curse my father put on the park is incredibly hard,”
he told her as he climbed the bookshelf ladder.
“But I managed to do it again today. The Bradleys
and their park are still safe.”
19

FEAR PARK
Robin wanted to laugh. Meghan was so easy to
fool!
“That’s really great,” Meghan told him. “I
started to get worried when you didn’t come home
sooner. I kept thinking something horrible had
happened. Somaes batd ahs thie hantchegt m ur-
ders.” She shuddered. “I can still see it, Robin. All
of my friends, chopping themselves to death. Such
horror. I can see it as if it was yesterday, can’t
you?”
“Yes.” Of course I remember the hatchet mur-
ders, Robin thought. How could I forget? -
How could I forget something so totally perfect?
As Robin stared at the bookshelf, the row of
books blurred and he pictured the grisly scene.
Dozens of kids—lajoukigng,h siinngingg—,ha d
gathered in the woods. All wore work shirts and
jeaandn bsoot s.
And all carried hatchets.
Jack Bradley had hired them, at a dollar a day, to
chop up the tree stumps left when part of the
woods had been cut down. Cut down to make way
for Fear Park.
Meghan was there with her friends. Including her
boyfrati tehant tdim e, Richard Bradley. Richard
Bradley, whose father, Jack, had ordetrhe ecldear -
ing of the Fear land.
Robin was there, too, pretending to help. He told
20

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Meghan that he’d sneaked away from his father to
be with her.
Meghadh beean wnorri ed. “Are you sure you
want to be here, Robin?” she asked. “I have a bad
feeling about it. A very bad feeling.”
“Evewilrl bey finte,” hRobiin anssurged h er. “I
can take care of myself.”
And I can take care of Fear Park, too, he thought.
Just wait. You think you have a bad feeling now.
Wait until you see what’s coming!
The youth crew began swinging their hatchets,
chopping at the tree stumps. It was the Great
Depression, and a dollar a day was a lot of money.
The kids laughed and joked as they worked.
And then Richard Bradley spotted Robin. Jeal-
ous because Meghan liked Robin, Richard picked a
fight. Robin didn’t have to do a thing. He just stood
by as Richard’s anger built into a wild rage.
Out of control, Richard swung his hatchet—and
just missed Robin’s head.
Richard swung the hatchet again. The glistening
silver blade whistled as he swept it through the
air—and sliced into another boy’s throat.
Screams and cries of horror broke out.
Richard’s next swing finished the job. The boy’s
head flew off.
Blood spurted like a fountain from the boy’s
ragged neck. His head rolled into the leaves and
wood chips.
21

FEAR PARK
Scrfiellead thme wsood s.
Thick purple smoke began to swirl through the
air.
Another hatchet sliced through the air. boi:
anotahnde anrot,her .
The kids shrieked in a murderous frenzy as they
whipped their deadly blades at one another.
Blood and hunks of flesh flew through the air,
- spattering the tree stumps, the ground, the faces
and arms of everyone in the clearing.
One of the shining blades sank deep into Richard
Bradley’s back. With a groan, he- sank to the
ground. Crimson blood poufrorm heis dwou nd
and seeped into the forest floor.
The strange purple smoke rose and twisted and
surged throtheu clgearhin g.
Meghan screamed as a blade flashed close to her
head. Robin grabbed her hand and pulled her to
safety at the edge of the clearing. “Robin, how can
this be happenisnheg c?ri”ed .
“I don’t know. They've all gone crazy!” He put
his hands on her shoulders and gave her a shove.
“Run, Meghan! Run home and call the police!
Hurry!”
Meghan raced off through the trees, and Robin
turned back to the clearing.
The slaughter continued.
As Robin gazed on the scene of horror, a smile of
triumph crossed his face.
22

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
I did this! he thought proudly. I caused this
massacre! The kids will chop one another to bits.
The park will never be built now! Never!
That’s what he had thought then, sixty years ago.
But now, standing on the library ladder, Robin
gritted his teeth and sighed in frustration.
“Robin, are you okay?” Meghan’s voice broke
into his thoughts. “I’m sorry I said anything about
the hatcheting. I didn’t mean to make you remem-
ber something so awful.”
“It’s all right.” Robin rearranged his expression
so he looked serious and concerned, then climbed
down the ladder. “I think about it all the time
anyway,” he told her with another sigh. “And I’m
like you. I can’t stop worrying that something like
it might happen again.”
“Then let me help you!” Meghan cried. “There
must be somethIi cann gdo ! I mean, you made us
both immortal so we could prevent another tragedy
from happening. But you’ve been trying to do it
alone, and it’s not fair. Please let me help you fight
your father’s curse!”
Robin shook his head firmly. “No, Meghan. I
know you want to help, but I can’t let you. I don’t
want you to be hurt.”
“But...”
“No!” he repeated. “You’ve already lost too
much because of this park. Your home. All your
23

FEAR PARK
friends. Everything. I can’t let you take a risk after
what you’ve been through.”
“J just wish there was something I could do for
youshe ,ins”iste d.
Striding to her side, Robin slid his arms around
her. “You already are,” he told her softly, resting
his chin on top of her head. “It’s enough that I find
_ you here waiting for me when I come home. It’s
more than enough. It keeps me going.”
As Meghan leaned against him, Robin smiled
grimly. Meghan never found out that I was respon-
sible for the deaths of all her friends so many years
agheo th,ough t. And she must never learn the
truth—tIh leaartne d the Fear magic to protectmy
father’s land.
She thinks I learned it so I could protect the
Bradleys. But she’s wrong. So wrong. I’m going to
destroy all their plans. No matter what I have to
do. No matter who I have to kill.
Thinking about what he would do, how he would
get even, Robin squeezed Meghan tightly.
*You’re so wonderful, Robin,” Meghan mur-
mured. “I haven’t had a normal life since you made
us immortal. Nof riends. Hidfroim tnhe gneig h-
bors so they won’t realize we never age. But I don’t
regret it. We’re together, and that’s what matters.”
As she spoke, Meghan stretched her hand up and
caressed Robin’s face. Her fingers softly stroked his
24

THE LOUDEST SCREAM.
cheek, then came to a sudden stop. She pulled away
wita jher k.
“Whwroang?”t Ro’bins ask ed.
“Nothing, really.” Meghan kissed his cheek.
“You just missed a little spot, that’s all.” .
With a gasp, Robin pulled away from her and
raced to the mirror. Meghan was right. A purple,
decaying spot of flesh still remained just above the
left corner of his mouth.
Robin hurried up the ladder and pulled out the
book of spells again. He grabbed the urn and set it
on the library table. Opening the book, he began
the chant of immortality.
Meglefht thae lnibra ry, shutthte dioorn sgoft ly
behind her.
Robin closed his eyes and continued the chant.
The purple smoke swirled and billowed around
the room.
Dierdre climbed the three steps into her father’s
office—a blue trailer at Fear Park’s front gate. The
traiwals eemprty .
She sat in the leather chair and frowned at the
desktop. Stacks of folders and contracts covered its
surface. All of them were labeled FEAR PARK.
Dad won't stop, she thouwigth ha tsig h.
Paul’s funeral was yesterday. But not even that
23

FEAR PARK
Dierdre knew how much the park meant to her
father. And she was on his side, she really was. But
maybe Rob had been right. Should her father forget
the whole thing, and find some other project? A
safer project?
It wasn’t just Paul’s death that made her wonder.
It was the history of the place. A history of hate. Of
bloOf voioldent .dea th.
Dierdre shudThadt heistorry ewas dso .stro ng,
she was afraid it would overpower all the good her
father wanted to do.
She decided to talk to him about it. She owed it
to Paul.
Dierdre glanced at her watch. Twelve noon.
Rising from the desk, she strode to the tiny refrig-
erator and pulled it open. A tuna sandwich
wrapped in plastic sat on the shelf next to an apple
and a small carton of milk.
Daddy’s lunch, she thought. And he’llbe here to
get it any minute. Should I try to talk to him when
he comeisn ?
As Dierdre shut the refrigerator, the office door
flew open. Expecting her father, she turned around,
smiling.
Jared Malone stood in the doorway.
Dierdre’s smile faded. “What are you doing
hershee d?ema”nde d.
Jared’s eyes shifted nervously around the office.
26

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Without replying, he burst across the floor and
grabbed Dierdre’s arm.
Dietrried dto prulle aw ay, but Jared tightened
his grip. His fingers squeezed tighter and tighter.
“Jared!” she gasped. “What are you doing? What
are you doing?”
27

cnePle,
5
é
Wiees your problem? Think P’'m
gotio hnurt gyou ?” Jared asked. He droppehde r
arm and smiled. “I just want to talk to you.”
Dierdre drew back, her heart pounding. “How
did you get into the park anyway?”
“A guy who knew Paul let me in. All I want to do
is talk,” he repeated. “I... I need a favor. From
your father.”
“Are you kidding?” Dierdre replied. “After what
you said yesterday, isn’t he the /ast person on earth
you'd ask for a favor?”
Jared shook his head. ““Look, I said some things I
didn’t mean, okay? I was upset about Paul. You
can’t blame me for that, right?”
He tried to sound sad and apologetic. If he could
just get Dierdre on his side, then everything would
work out the way he’d planned.
Dierdre gazed at him for a moment. “No, I guess
28

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
I can’t blame you,” she said. “What kind of favor
do you want? Maybe I can help.”
All right! Jared thought, nodding eagerly. “Yeah,
I think you can help,” he told her. “I think you can
smotheo waty fohr m e.”
“Smthoe woay tfor hwha t?”
Okay, Jared told himself. Here goes. He took a
deep breath. “I need a job, Dierdre. I came to ask
your fatfhor ea jrob .”
Dierdre blinked in surprise. “You mean a job at
Fear Parskhe? as”ked .
“Yeah, that’s right,” Jared replied. “See, I figured
I could take Paul’s place. Run the Ferris wheel, do
whatever else he was going to do.”
Not that anybody can take Paul’s place, he
thought to himself. But if I can just get a job here,
Pll be on the inside. The perfect place to cause
trouble. Major trouble for Jason Bradley.
“Listen, Jared—” Dierdre started to say.
“I know I can do it,” he interrup“It’em dgo.o d
with mechanical stuff. Cars, lawn mowers, VCRs,
all kinds of machines. Why not a Ferris wheel?”
Dierkedptr queie t.
Jared couldn't tell what she was thinking. He
lowered his eyes and spoke softly. “It'll really mean
a lot to me, knowing I'd be carrying on in Paul’s
place.”
If that doesnge’t the r, notwihll,i hen thgough t.
29

FEAR PARK
He studied her face. Her lips shookas if she were
about to cry. Great! She’s definitely buying my sob
story!
“Please, Dierdre,” Jared pleaded. “All I want is a
chance. Couldn’t you ask your dad for me?”
“Why don’t you ask me yourself?” a voice de-
manded.
_ “Daddy!” Dierdre cried. Sidestepping Jared, she
sped across the office to her father.
Jared stayed where he was, gazing at the short,
overweight man with bushy black hair. The man he
blamed for Paul’s death. No, not death—murder.
Jason Bradley glanced at Dierdre, then Jared,
then back at Dierdre. ““What’s going on, Dee? You
look upset.”
“No, Pm okay,” Dierdre told him. “Dad, you
know Jared Malone. Paul’s brother.”
Mr. Bradley’s expression softened. “Of course.
Jared, I want to tell you again how terribly sorry I
am about Paul.”
Jared didn’t respond. Just the sight of Bradley
made him want to bash something. He clenched his
jaw to keep from shouting.
Keep cool, he told himself. Don’t blow it now.
“We'll all miss him,” Mr. Bradley continued.
“He was—”
“Okay, thanks,” Jared cut him off. “But I didn’t
30

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
come here to talk about my brother. I came to get
work.”
“He wants to take Paul’s place,” Dierdre ex-
plained.
- “Right,” Jared agreed. “I was telling Dierdre Pm
good with machines and stuff. I can run the Ferris
wheel and anything else, just as good as Paul.”
“Othoo ,bad ,” Bradley repl“iI’vee adlr.ead y
hired a replacement for Paul. Rob Fear. Do you
know him?”
“No.” He probably hired the guy before Paul’s
body was even cold, Jared thought angrily. “But
that’s okay. How about some other job?” he sug-
gested quickly. “I could sell tickets, maybe, or run
an ice-stcandr. eAnyathimng !”
Mr. Bradley kept shaking his head. “All the jobs
are filled right now. I have a waiting list. Maybe
next summer.”
“But that'll be too late!” Jared blurted out.
“Tm sorry, truly,” Bradley said.
Jared finally lost control. “Yeah, right!” he
snapped. “If you’re so sorry, how come you re-
placed Paul so fast, huh? I know why. Because you
didn’t care about him. All you care about is the
lousy park!”
“Now just a minute!” Bradley cried.
“Forget it!” Jared shouted. “Don’t even bother
making any excuses. They’d all be lies!”
31

FEAR PARK
_ Jason Bradley’s eyes narrowed. “I think you'd
better leave, son.”
“Good idea! I can’t stand the smell in this place,
anyway!” Furious, Jared strode across the office.
He shoved Bradley roughly aside as he bolted out
the door.
Behind him, he heard Bradley shout. But he
didtnurn’ btack .
~ His anger built as he raced down the steps and
onto the path where his friends waited for him.
“Hey, man,” Steve called, “what happened?”
“Foit!r” Jagrede sntappe d.
“I guess Bradley didn’t go for it, huh?” Kevin
“I told you to forget it!” Jared grabbed a rock
from the path and squeezed it in his hands. “It was
a dumb idea, okay?”
Joey frowned. “So what are you going to do now,
Jared?”
Jared marched quickly along the path, shaking
his head, too angry to speak.
Jason Bradley! he thouTheg guhy prtact.ical ly
murders Paul and won’t even give me the time of
day! Says he’s so sorry, but he can’t do a thing for
me. Can’t even find me a job selling ice-cream
cones!
Jared’s anger boiled up inside him until he could
hardly see straight. He wanted to hit something! To
bash somethtoi pniecges !
32

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
In a rage, he cocked his arm back and hurled the
rock through the air as hard as he could.
“Hey, man, watch it!” Joey cried out.
Too late.
A high-pitched shriek of pain split the air.
33

cnaPley,
6
ie shriek spiraled up through the
empty park. Jared shut his eyes.
What did I hit? A child?
His eyes snappoepden .
At the end of the path stood a sign ——THE MONKEY
PRESERVE.
The rock rested at the base of a tree just inside
the fence. On one of the tree limbs sat a small
squirrel monkey. A trickle of bright red blood ran
down one side of its face, matting down the fur. Its
eyes were bright with fear, as if it expected another
rock to come hurtling out of nowhere any second.
A monkey, Jared thought. Not a kid. Still, he felt
bad. He hadn’t meant to hit the little guy. He
hadn’t meant to hit anything.
As Jared moved closer to the edge of the preserve
to get a better look, a tall, muscular man wearing a
brown-and-gold Fear Park uniform raced from an
34

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
adjoining path. Two more uniformed men ran
behind him.
“Hey, you!” the man shouted angrily. As he drew
closer, Jared saw the words S. GUNTHER, PRESERVE
MANAGER, On his name tag. “Did you throw that
rock? Get away from there!”
Before Jared could say a word, Gunthreanr u p
and shoved him roughly away from the edge of the
preserve.
Jared stumbled back, falling against Steve. He
held his hands out, palms up. “Hey, man, Pm
sorry!” he exclaimed to Gunther. “I didn’t mean to
hit him. It was an accident!”
“Tell that to the monkey!” Gunther’s hard
brown eyes were hot with anger. He gave Jared
another shove.
“Hey!” Jared’s own temper flared. “I said Iw as
sorry!”
“Yeah, give him a break!” Kevin shouted. He
flexed the muscles under his tight T-shirt.
“The only break you get is not being arrested—
not this time, anyway,” Gunther declared. He
waved to the two workers, who stepped forward.
“Get these four thugs out of the park,” he ordered.
“You can’t do that!” Jared cried.
“Oyhes I, can .” Gunther gave him an icy smile.
“I’m giving you a two-man escort out of here. We
do that with all our VIPs—Very Important
Punks!”
35

FEAR PARK
One of Gunther’s men put a hand on Jared’s
arm. Jared stiffened. A fight would feel great right
about now, he thought.
Fouofr u s and throfe tehem ? Gunther looks
pretty solid, but the other two are mostly flab. We
could take them, easy.
“Don’t. even think about it, punk,” Gunther
warned, as if he could read Jared’s mind. “One
- swing from you or your buddies, and my men will
have the entire park security crew in your faces in a
minute flat.”
Jared felt his face heat up with anger and embar-
rassment. He hated being pushed around. But
Gunther was obviously ready to call in the cavalry.
“Don’t bother,” he told the preserve manager. “We
can’t get out of this lousy park fast enough!”
He glared at Gunther, then shook off the work-
er’s hand and strode away.
From a bend in the path, Robin Fear watched as
Jared and his friends hustled toward the park exit.
Gunther’s men stayed a few feet behind them,
making sure they really left.
Robin stepped out and began to follow. As he
passed Gunther he gave the preserve manager a
friendly smile. “Hey, Mr. Gunther, how’s it
going?”
Gunther nodded briefly, then turned toward the
monkey preserve.
36

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Robin chuckled to himself as he hurried along.
He wasn’t surprised to see Gunther kick Jared and
King of the Mountain. Always had to be on top and
in control.
Jared Malone is another story, Robin thought.
Talk about being out of control. The guy is a
walktiimen bgomb !
-And I just might be able to use that temper of his
to help me mess things up around here.
Jared and his friends were out of the park now,
heading down the street. Robin picked up his pace
to a jog. “Jared!” he called. “Hey, Jared, wait up a
sec!”
Jared stopped and turned around, frowning
when he saw who had called his name. “What do
you want?” he demanded. “Gonna get on my case
for yelling at Dierdre yesterday?”
Robin shook his head. “No way, man. That’s
between you and her,” he said. “I wanted to talk to
you about somethielnsge. ”
“Yeah? What?”
“Gunther,” Robin replied. “I saw what hap-
pened back there at the preserve.”
Jared scowled. “So what? You want to make
somethiofn igt? ”
“No!” Robin widened his eyes in fake surprise.
“Ave you kidding? ’'m on your side. Gunther is a
prime jerk.” .
37

FEAR PARK
Steve chuckled. “‘You got that right.”
Jared’s scowl deepened. “I shouldn’t have let
him push me around like that.”
Kevin nodded. “Yeah. You want to go back and
get him now, Jared? Jump him before he can call in
his guys?”
“I’ve got a better idea,” Robin said quickly. “A
_ much better idea.”
“What’s better than jumping the guy?” Kevin
demanded. .
“Scaring him,” Robin replied. “And I mean
really scaring him—so bad he'll cry for his
mommy.”
Jared’s buddies laughed at the thought.
“So what’s your idea?” Jared asked.
“Come on. I'll show you.” Robin took off down
the sidewalk, which wound around the outside of
Fear Park. Jared and his friends followed. Like
mice sniffing at a trap, Robin thought. If only I can
get them to go for the bait.
The sidewalk sloped steeply upward, leading
them to the top of a hill. From there, they could
look down on the trees and rolling hills of Fear
Park’s wild animal preserve.
“See that cliff over there?” Robin asked.
“Yeah.” Steve shrugged. “Big deal.”
Robm ignored him and spoke to Jared. “That
cliff juts out over the lion pasture. And every night
38

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
at nine-thirty—like clockwork——Gunther goes up
there and drops meat down to feed the lions.” He
licked his lips. “Those lions are hungry, too.
They’re just waiting down there with their jaws
wide open!”
“Okay, I get the picture. So what’s your idea?”
Jared asked again, staring at the cliff.
“The park opens tomorrow,” Robin told him.
“There'll be a few people around tonight, checking
things out. Buf not many. So you guys come here
tonigh’ ”
He lowered his voice. “Then, the four of you
sneak up on Gunther, surprise him from behind.
Get it? You let him think you’re going to push him
off that cliff—straight into the lions’ jaws!”
Steve and Kevin laughed and slapped each other
high-fives. ““That’ll make him wish he never messed
with us!” Joey exclaimed. “Right, Jared?”
“Yeah,” Jared agreed. “But we’re not supposed
to be here. What if we get caught?”
“You won't,” Robin assured him. “I'll make sure
one gate is unlocked and Ill show you the service
road that runs behind the park. You can use it
without being spotted. Anyway, if somebody does
see you, just say you’re part of a work crew,
checking the grounds.”
“And then we sneak up on Gunther, right?” Joey
asked eagerly. “And freak him out!”
39

FEAR PARK
“Yeah,” Jared repeated thoughtfully. “Except
Gunther. doesn’t look like the kind of guy who
fresao keassy. ”
Robin smiled. “Believe it or not, Gunther is
terrified of those lions. Why do you think he feeds
them from the top of a cliff? You pretend you’re
going to shove him off, he’ll go down on his knees
and beg you not to!”
- Kevin’s lips curled in a sneer. “We gotta do it!”
Jared laughed. But then he stared at the cliff
again, frowning and chewing his lip.
Don’t let him think too long or he might not go
for it, Robin told himself. “It’s a chance for
revenge—big time,” he murmured, stepping close
to Jared. “Just picture Gunther—his knees shak-
ing, his face all white and scared, his eyes bugging
out.”
Jared glanced at Robin, then back at the cliff.
“What do you say?” Robin asked. “Will you do
it?”
40

cnaPle,
Z
ro let his eyes wander along the
winding trail. The full moon cast spooky shadows
over the ground. And the night breeze made weird
rustling noises in the trees and bushes.
Jared’s heart thudded as he crept cautiously up
the trail with his buddies. A twig snapped close by,
sounding like a firecracker going off in his ear.
“What was that?” he whispered. “Anybody see
anything?”
“Nothing,” Steve murmured. “Probably a bird
or a squiorr sormetehilng. ”
Jared narrowed his eyes and peered down the
path. All he could see were shadows. The path
seemed empty.
“Think a night watchman spotted us?” Joey
asked, gazing around anxiously.
“Nah. Remember? Rob Fear told us they won't
41

FEAR PARK
patrol this part of the park until it’s open,” Kevin
replied. “Maybe it was a raccoon. Come on. Let’s
get going.”
As they moved on, Jared lagged behind, think-
ing. He was almost positive the noise had been a
footstep. What if Rob Fear is wrong and a night
watchman catches us? After that scene I made in
his office this afternoon, Jason Bradley will proba-
_bly have me thrown in jail.
The wind picked up, noisily blowing the leaves
and branches. Jared tensed with every creak and
rustle. It’s not too late to turn back, he thought.
Gunther is not going anywhere. I can get to him
some other time.
But it wouldn’t be so easy once the park had its
grand opening tomorrow. Then the place would be
packed all night. Not much chance of catching
Gunther feeding the lions by himself.
Thinking of Gunther, Jared gritted his teeth. The
guy has to pay for the way he treated me, he
thought. And Rob Fear had the right idea—catch
the preserve manager alone and scare the pants off
him! Teach him a lesson he’ll never forget!
Jared picked up his pace and hurried after his
friends. The path wound through the trees for
another fifty yards. Then it began to steepen, just as
Rob had described.
“This is it!” Jared whispered. “About twenty
42

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
more yards and we'll be at the top. We’govt teo b e
real quiet from now on.”
“Yeah.” Kevin snickered. “We don’t want to
spoil Gunther’s surprise!”
The path grew more narrow. With Jarien dth e
lead again, the boys walked single file.
Almost at the top of the incline, Jared came to a
halt and held his hand up. The others stopped
behind him. Together, they listened.
Jared heard a night bird warble two notes. Then
... Silence.
Jared inched the rest of the way up the incline. At
the top, the ground flattened out. He could see the
waist-high rail running along the edge of the cliff.
No sign of Gunther.
Jared checked his watch. Twenty-seven minutes
after nine. If Rob Fear was right, Gunther should
be coming up the other path any minute now.
Jared rejoined the others. And the group quietly
crept intoa small grove oft rees to wait.
The wait didn’t last long.
Jared almost gasped aloud as a rattling, clanking
sound broke the quiet of the park. Faint and distant
at first, it grew closer and louder. Soon Jared could
hear footsteps, and the shrill sound of someone
whistling through his teeth.
The. rattling noise and the footsteps stopped
abruptly, but the whistling continued.
43

FEAR PARK
Jared relaxed and exchanged grins with the oth-
ers. He waved his arm and motioned them out of
the grove. “Let’s do it!” he whispered.
Cautiously, the four boys crept to the top of the
incline and peered across the clearing.
Gunther stood near the rail, whistling as he
pulled on a pair of plastic gloves. Two large metal
buckets sat on the ground beside him.
__ With the gloves on, Gunther reached into one of
the buckets and pulled out a huge slab of raw meat.
The gristle and fat ran through it like thick veins,
glistening white in the moonlight. Dark red juice
oozed from Gunther’s plastic-covered fingers and
dripped onto the tops of his boots. He didn’t stop
whistling.
Probably eats the stuff himself, Jared thought.
And then his skin prickled as a deep rumbling
sound echoed up from the base of the cliff.
The lions, hungry for their dinner.
Waving his arm again, Jared led the others into
the clearing. As planned, Joey and Steve crossed to
the right side to block Gunther’s escape to the
other path. Kevin moved to the left.
Keeping to the middle, Jared strode quickly
across the clearing until he was only a couple of feet
behthie npredser ve manager. He watched Gunther
bend over the bucket again.
“Hey, Gunther!” Jared’s voice rang out loudly.
“Havinga little snack?”
44

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Gunther straighupt weitnh ea jder k. Thes tartled
expression changed to anger when he saw Jared.
“What do you think you’re doing here?” he de-
manded.
“You threw me out of the park today, remem-
ber?” Jared replied. “You shouldn’t have done
that.”
Gunther’s lip curled scornfully. “Get lost, kid,o r
Pil throw you out again. And this time, I'll make
sure you're never allowed back in.”
Joey gigglferodm the right side of the clearing. “I
don’t think so!”
“Yeah,” Kevin called from the left side. “You
don’t have any backup this time.”
“Can’t call in your troops tonight,” Steve de-
clared.
Gunther’s head swiveled from side to side as he
loctahe totheer dbo ys. Then he turnbaeckd t o
Jared. “What do you want?”
Jared smiled coldly and stepped closer to Gun-
ther. “We thought we’d help you feed the lions.”
“Get lost,” Gunther repeated.
At the bottom of the cliff, the low growlgrse w
louder. More urgent.
“They want fresh meat. Not that stinking stuff!”
Steve called.
Jared took another step toward Gunther.
His friends edged in closer.
45

FEAR PARK
Jared grinned. “So what we thought we’d do is
give them a meal they'll never forget—you!”’
**You’re lion meat!” Steve threatened.
Gunther stood his ground. But his cheek
twitched.
Jared’s smile widened. The jerk is getting ner-
vous now, he thought. Good. Make him think
we're really going to throw him off that cliff. Wait
until he gets on his knees and begs us not to. Then
we'll split.
Gunther turned back to Jared. “Don’t take an-
other step,” he ordered. But his voice shook. “You
and the other thugs get out of here now, before
| ede
“Before you what?” Jared interrupted.
Jared edged closer. His friends moved up until
the four of them formed a tight semicircle around
the preserve manager.
Down below, the lions roared.
Gunther glanced nervously over his shoulder.
“They're waiting, Gunther,” Jared told him.
“And they sound real hungry!”
Slowly, the four boys edged toward Gunther.
Gunther took one step back. Then another. Now
he stood with his back pressed against the railing.
“Okay, Gunther,” Jared began. But he stopped
as Kevin poked him in the ribs.
““What’s that stuff?” Kevin asked, pointing to the
edge of the clearing.
46

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Jared gazed over and frowned. A cloud of smoke
drifted along the ground toward them.
A fire? Jared wondered. No. He couldn’t smell
anything burning. Besides, this smoke was a weird
color—a pale purple. He’d never seen smoke like
that.
“It’s getting higher!” Joey cried.
Jared gasped. Joey was right. The smoke thick-
ened until it blocked out the trees behind it. It
twisted and writhed as if it were alive, churning
along the ground and billowing into the sky. Its
color deepened to a dark, rich purple.
“Let’s get out of here!” Joey urged. “That stuff
gives me the creeps!”
Jared nodded and was about to leave when a
sound stopped him. He turned around.
In froonf thim , Gunther dropped the two slabs
of meat to the ground. His face had gone slack. His
eyes glazed over, blank.
“What’s his problem?” Kevin asked. “He looks
like a zombie.”
“Who cares?” Joey replied. “Come on—let’s
go!”
“Yeah,” Jared agreed. “Hey, Gunther, this is
your lucky day. We’re outta here.”
Gunther didn’t reply. He turned his back on the
boys and climbed onto the railing.
“Wrong way, Gunther!” Kevin shouted.
Gunther kept moving.
47

FEAR PARK
“Hey!” Jared cried. “Gunther! What’s the matter
with you, man? You're going to—” He brokeof f
and dove toward Gunther.
Too late.
Gunther swung himself over the railing—and
over the edge of the cliff.
48

cpaPle,,
8
“N
ol” Jared wailed. He scrambled
to his feet and stared down the cliff. “Nooo!”
The crack of bones breaking against rocks rose
up through the billowing purple smoke.
A brief silence followed.
Then a lion snarled. A ferocious roar.
Jared dropped to his knees and covered his ears.
But he couldn’t block it out. Beneath the snarl-
ing, he could hear the sickening, wet sound of flesh
being ripped from bones as the lions tore into their
dinner.
“Jared!” Kevin grabbed Jared’s arm. “What are
you doing? We have to get out of here!”
Jared didn’t move. “Did you see him? He
climbed that rail like a robot or something.”
“Yeah, I saw it.” Kevin tugged Jared’s arm again.
“Come on, man! We gotta gol”
49

FEAR PARK
The night had grown quiet again.
The growis and snaris from below had stopped.
Jared rose shakily to his feet. As he did, he
peered over the edge of the cliff.
“No!” he moaned. “Oh, man! Oh, no!”
In the moonlight, the rocks at the bottom of the
cliff glistened with what looked like thick, dark
paint.
It’s not paint, Jared thought.
It’s blood.
Gunther’s blood. Spattered all over the rocks.
And Gunther’s body, or what was left of it. It
didn’t look human anymore. The flesh was torn
and twisted, like hunks of raw, bloody meat.
One eye stared sightlessly toward the sky.
Jared’s stomach heaved.
He bent over, braced his hands against his
thighs, and vomited in the dirt.
Wave after wave of nausea hit him, until his
muscles ached and nothing remained in his
stomach.
“Jared, are you okay?” Joey whispered, sounding
very frightened. “We have to go. Can you make it?”
Jared wiped his mouth on the back of his hand
and nodded. He tried to walk. But his knees turned
to jelly again, and he started to sink.
Kevin and Steve grabbed him before he fell.
“Come on. We'll help you,” Steve said. With Joey
30

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
leading the way, the four boys left the cliff and
started back down the path.
“How did it happen?” Jared murmured, shaking
his head. “We never touched him!”
“I don’t know,” Kevin replied. “Don’t think
about it, okay?”
But Jared couldn’t stop thinking about it.
Couldn’t stop seeing that glazed look in Gunther’s
eyes. The way he had turned and threw himself
over the cliff to his death.
“How?” he muttered again. “We didn’t touch
him. Nobody laid a finger on him!”
Steve shrugged. ““The guy was crazy, that’s all.”
“He wasn’t like that before,” Jared argued.
“What happened? We didn’t touch him. We never
touched him!”
“Yeah, it wasn’t our fault,” Joey agreed.
“Right. We’re in the clear on this.” Tightening
his grip on Jared’s arm, Kevin helped steer him
around the last bend in the path.
“How could something like that happen?” Jared
repeated as they stepped onto one of the main
walkways of the park. “How?”
No one answered.
“We didn’t touch him,” Jared chanted to him-
self. “We didn’t! We didn’t!”
Jared stopped suddenly. He had to go back up
there. He didn’t know why. Maybe if he did, he’d
31

FEAR PARK
find out the whole thing had been a night-
mare
He turned around.
And froze:
Two security guards came hurtling toward them,
grim expressions locked on their faces.
Too late to run.
32

cnaPle,
9
66,
h, no,” Joey groaned.
“Come on, Jared!” Kevin tugged hard on Jared’s
arm. “Come on! We can outrun them!”
Jared numbly shook his head. Can’t run, he
thought. Besides, it’s too late.
The security guards ran breathlessly toward
them. The man was short and thick, with a beefy
face. The woman was tall and strong-looking.
Both had their eyes on Jared. “Hold on there!”
the man calleoudt .
Jared tried to brace himself. But his legs were like
jelly. If his friends hadn’t been holding him, he
would have fallen to the ground.
“Whwea do?t” Ke'vinl whilsper ed. His fingers
dug painfully into Jared’s arm. “What’ll we say?”
Jared just shook his head. He didn’t have the
answers.
The guards drew to a stop in. front of them.
33

FEAR PARK
Putting her hands on her hips, the woman bent
forward slightly and peered into Jared’s face. “Are
you okay, son?”
Jared blinked, confused at her tone. She sounded
worried. “What?” he asked, not sure he’d heard
right.
“I asked if you’re okay.” The woman frowned,
but it was a frown of concern, not anger or suspi-
cion,
Her partner nodded. “We saw your friends help-
ing you. What’s wrong?”
“Are you ill?” his partner asked.
Jared felt a flood of relief. The security guards
hadn’t found Gunther. They didn’t suspect him of
anything. They were actually worried about him!
“Yeah, I am a little sick,” he told them. His voice
came out shaky and weak. “II. ate. to.o mu ch
cotton candy, I guess.”
“Yeah, we were working on one of the food
stands.” Joey quickly picked up on the story.
“Getting it set up, you know? We kept telling him
to stop pigging out. But he kept stuffing it in his
mouth!”
“I can’t resist that junk, either.” The man said
with a chuckle, and patted his belly.
Jared managed a smile.
“You still look awfully shaky,” the woman said.
“Can we give you some help getting home?”
54

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
“No, thanks,” Jared replied. “Really. My friends
will get me back okay.”
“All right. But take it easy,” she told him. “And
next time, lay off the candy.”
“You bet. ThanJarked ssmil.ed ”aga in. Then he
turned away, leaning on the arms of his friends. He
wanted to run, but he didn’t dare. He could still
sense the security guards behind him, watching.
“Can you believe that?” Kevin whispered as
soon as they were out of earshot. “Luck is definitely
on our side tonight!”
Yeah, Jared thought. But not on Gunther’s.
Dierdre squeezed Rob’s hand as they walked
along the path leading around the wild animal
preserve. “It’s such a beautiful night,” she mur-
mured, gazing at the full moon. “And so quiet. It’s
hard to believe that tomorrow night this place will
be a total madhouse. All the rides and booths and
crowds and lights. It'll be wild.”
Robin squeezed her hand back, but didn’t say
anything. She glanced at him. “You're awfully
quiet, too, Rob. What are you thinking about?”
Robin flashed her a quick smile. “I’m just hoping
that everything goes all right tomorrow night,” he
replied.
“Me too.” Dierdre sighed. For her father’s sake,
she really did want everything to be okay. But for
35

FEAR PARK
herself? I’m just not sure, she thought. So much has
gone wrong. She shivered and felt Rob’s arm slide —
around her shoulders.
“Cold?” he asked.
She started to shake her head, then changehde r
mind. “Well, maybea little,” she replied. Actually,
the nigwahs wtarm . Her shiver didn’t have any-
thing to do with the weather.
- But she liked the feel of Rob’s arm around her.
She enjoyed being so close to him.
She enjoyed it even when Paul was alive.
She loved Paul. But there was something about
Rob Fear. Something so attractive.
Not his looks or his brains or anything she couffl
name.
I don’t know what it is, Dierdre thought.
I only know that it’s powerful.
And I can’t resist it.
Sighing again, Dierdre snuggled closer to Rob.
He tightened his arm and she felt his cheek against
the top of her head. But he still didn’t speak.
He must really be worried about the park, too
she thought. Maybe that’s what I like about him—
that he cares about me and Dad so much.
Dierdre smiled to herself, then stopped sud-
denly. “Did you hear that?” she asked.
“What?”
“Listen!” She pulled free of Rob’s arm and stood
36

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
rigid, waiting. “There!” she cried. “Can’t you hear
it?”
Rob. frowned. “All I hear is some growling.
Probathbe llioyns. ”
“I know. But they sound strange,” Dierdre re-
plied. She listened again. “Can’t you hear it? They
sound as if they’ve gone crazy or something.”
“They are wild animals,” Rob reminded her.
Dierdre jumped as a fierce roar cut through the
silence. “Do you think they’re fighting?”
“They're probably just playing,” Rob suggested.
“Come on, Dierdre. Let’s go get something to eat.”
Anorotar hbrokee trhrou gh thes tillneosf sth e
park. Dierdre shook her head. “It just doesn’t
sound right,” she declared. “Let’s go see.”
“['m sure nothing’s wrong,” Rob assured her.
“And I’m getting awfully hungry, aren’t you?”
“Please, Rob.” Dierdre held out her hand.
“You’re probably right. But I want to see for
myself.”
Rob took her hand and smiled again. The smile
that lit up his dark eyes and made Dierdre shiver
with pleasure. “Ill do anything for you,” he told
her softly.
As they walked toward the cliff overlooking the
lion preserve, Dierdre laughed softly. “Tell you
what. Since you let me drag you all the way up here,
Pll buy the ice cream . . .” She broke off suddenly.
37

at
FEAR PARK
FpOsee t h
“Rob, look—there’s Daddy! What’s he doing up
here?”
Without waiting for his reply, she pulled her
hand free and ran across the clearing.
Jason Bradhlade byee n staovrer ithen edgge of
the cliff. But when he heard Dierdre’s footsteps, he
turned sharply.
Something’s wrong! Dierdre thought. Some-
_thing’s terribly wrong!
Her father held up his hand. “Stop, Dierdre!” he
shouted. “Don’t come any closer!”
Dierdre kept running. “What’s wrong, Dad?
What’s the matter with the lions?”
“Just stop!” Bradley yelled. “You don’t want to
see it, believe me!”
“See what? Daddy, what is it?” Dodging her
father’s outstretched arm, Dierdre raced past him
and peered over the edge oft he cliff.
At first, all she saw were some uniformed park
workers, standing in a clump at the base of the
cliffs. They shifted their weight from foot to foot
and glanced around tensely.
Then Dierdre saw a round object covered with a
stained piece of cloth. Nearby sat a huge chunk of
meat.
“You’re right, Dad,” she murmured. “I wish I
hadn’t seen that meat—it’s pretty disgusting. But
how come the workers are down there? And why
are you so upset?”
38

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
“Because that isn’t meat, Dierdre. It’s...”
' Bradley swallowed hard. “It’s what’s left of Gun-
“GunthBeutr .? . .” She stoaps hpere fatdher ’s
‘words sank in. “No!” she whispered. “Oh, no!”
As she stepped away from the cliff edge, she felt
the blood drain from her face. A fuzzy blackness
closed in and she stumbled. Then she felt Rob’s
arm around her waist. Rob’s strong arm, holding
her up.
“Come on, Dierdre,” he murmured. “I'll take
you home.”
“No.” Dierdre took a deep breath and shook
away the image of that hideous sight at the bottom
of the cliff. “I want to know what happened. Teil
me, Dad.”
Bradley shook his head. “We’re not sure, honey.
Obviously, it was an accident.”
“What do you mean?” Dierdre asked.
“Well, he probably stood on the rail so he could
throw the meat way out in the pasture. He must
have lost his balance—and toppled over.”
“First Paul, and now Gunther,” Dierdre mur-
mured.
Bradley nodded grimly. “It’s terrible . . . just
terrible.”
Dierdre gazed sadly at her father. He looked so
pale and shaken. And no wonder! He’d been work-
ing so hard on the park, and horrible things just
39

FEAR PARK
kept happening. “I feel so bad for you, Daddy,” she
told him. “Is there anything I can do?”
“Don’t worry about me, honey.” He patted her
shoulder. “I have you. And I have my work.”
“Then you're going ahead with the opening?”
she asked.
“Of course,” he declared. “Why wouldn’t I?”
“J just thought because ofa ll the accidents...
-all the people getting hurt, you might change your
mind.” Dierdre hesitated. “So you still think it’s
worth it, even after everything that’s happened?”
“It’s my dream, Dierdre,” Bradley told her. “I
can’t give it up because things go wrong.”
“But aren’t you worried?” Dierdre asked. “I
mean, what if something else happens? Something
much worse?”
“What could be worse than these two horrible
deaths?” her father replied.
“I don’t know!” Dierdre cried. “I just have a
horrible feeling that the park is jinxed or some-
thing.” She turned to Rob. “What do you think,
Rob?”
Bradley interrupted before Rob could reply.
“Nonsense, Dee. These deaths were both acci-
dents. They have nothing to do with the park.
There’s no jinx on this place. Or on any place!
You’re much too levelheaded to be superstitious,
honey.”
“I guess you’re right,” Dierdre admitted. She
60

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
reached out and hugged him. “I’m sorry, Daddy.
Pm just upset.”
“Of couryosu ear e. I am, too.” He huggehde r
tightly. “Just remember, this place is my dream,”
he repeated in a fierce voice. “I'll never give it up.
Never. They'll have to shoot me and carry me out
of here before Pd give up on Fear Park!”
Bradley hugged Dierdre for a moment longer,
then strode away toward the cliff.
Dierdre turned to Rob.
As she did, a sharp crack ricocheted through the
night.
Dierdre screamed. She recognized that sound.
A gunshot.
61

cnaPle,
10
Aca shot rang out. Dierdre
screamed. Dad! she thought.
Another crack of the rifle.
“Dad!” Dierdre shrieked.
She spun around. He stood as before, staring
over the edge of the cliff.
“What’s going on?” Dierdre shrieked. “Dad!
What’s happening? Why is somebody shooting?”
“I called the wildlife officials,” Bradley called
back. “The lions are in a frenzy. So they’re shoot-
ing them with tranquilizer darts to calm them
down!”
“Why are the lions in a frenzy?” Dierdre asked.
Her father didn’t seem to hear her.
Rob touched her arm. “It’s the meat,” he told
her. “The human meat. Now that they’ve had a
taste of it, they want more.”
“Oh!” Dierdre shuddered as the image of Gun-
62

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
ther’s ripped and shredded body flashed into her
mind. “Come on, Rob. Let’s get out of here!”
“Do you think it was an accident?” Robin asked
as they walked down the employee service road.
“What do you mean?” Dierdre replied. “You
don’t think someone threw Gunther over the rail,
do you?”
“I don’t know what to think,” Robin told her.
“But I can’t help wondering about the Fear curse.”
“I know. That’s what I was thinking about when
I told Dad the park might be jinxed,” Dierdre
admitted.
“After what happened to Gunther, I got a weird
feeling, as if there really is a curse on the park,”
Robin continued. “I always laughed it off as a
family rumor. But now I’m starting to believe it.”
“Don’t,” Dierdre told him. “Really, Rob. There
isn’t any curse.”
“How can you be so sure?” he asked. “You said
yourself that’s what you thought when you saw
Gunther.”
Dierdre shook her head. “I won’t let myself get
all superstitious and start believing in curses. Dad
is right,” she told him. “Everything that happened
has been an accident.”
Robin nodded and gritted his teeth in frustra-
tion.
So much for scaring her with the curse.
63

FEAR PARK
Well, at least I caused Bradley some grief. I got.
that weak-brained Jared and his buddies to do
exactly what I wanted. Without even realizing it,
they’ve been acting in my own little drama. And
they played their parts perfectly.
Everyone had.
Except Jason Bradley.
Bradley’s reaction surprised Robin. He expected
the man to be much more upset. What does it take
to break him? Robin wondered.
Weil, it doesn’t matter. I have plenty more tricks
up my sleeve.
Plenty more “accidents.”
Robin tightened his arm around Dierdre’s
shoulder.
She gazed up at him, a concerned expression on
her face. “You’re not still thinking about the curse,
are you?”
Robin shrugged. Actually, he was thinking about
what other damage he could cause. “A little, I
guess,” he lied.
“Look at it this way,” Dierdre suggested. “If
there is a curse, we can’t do anything about it.
Right?”
“I. suppose not.”
“Right, so we just have to forget it.” Dierdre
wrahper parme ardoun d his waist. “Anyway, there
isn’t one. And I have a feeling everything’s going to
be all right from now on.”
64

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
“I hope you're right.”
“J am,” Dierdre declared. “I’m sure of it.”
Robin nodded and glanced around.
They were on one of the main paths now, but the
area was deserted. The workers had either left for
the night or were up in the wild animal preserve,
calmtihen ligons .
A few feet ahead stood a workstatiao snma,l l
shed where work crews stored their tools. A single
light shone above the station.
On a bench in front of the shed, Robin could see
a hammer.
Someone left out a nice big hammer with a
gleamsteieln hgead .
Robin grinned. The hammer was perfect for
bashing skulls.
As he and Dierdre strollbye dth e workstation, he
fingers around the hammer and silently lifted it
frtohe bmenc h.
Good, he thought, holding the hammer against
his thigh. A leather grip on the handle. No chance
of it slipping. Wouldn’t want to swing and miss!
He glanced at Dierdre. She hadn’t noticed.
Pretty soon, she wouldn’t notice anything.
Anythiant agll .
A few more steps, and they had passed the
workThse patth abecatme idarko annd s.hado wy
again.
65

FEAR PARK
To gain some distance, Robin took his arm from
around Dierdre’s shoulders. He faked a yawn and
raised both arms in the air, as if he were stretching.
Dierdre walked a step ahead of him now.
Do it before she turns around!
Robin stopped. Gripping the hammer tightly, he
brought his arm back.
And then he swung it as hard as he could at her
head.
66

cnaPle,
11
See cena cee octint =
singing, whistling sound.
Dierdre’s head is going to split like a ripe water-
melon! Robin thought.
His lips twisted in a fierce smile.
He braced himself for the impact.
Dierdre cried out.
Too late, Dierdre! Robin thought. He waited for
the crack of the hammer against her skull.
The hammer completed its arc.
And hit nothibunt gai r.
Robin stumthbrowln eoffd bal,anc e.
Completely unaware, Dierdrhead run across the
path.
“Look, Rob!” she called. “Look at that poor little
thing!”
Gasping, Robin quickly hid the hammer behind
his bacakn d straightened up. |
67

FEAR PARK
Dierdre had dropped to her knees by the fence
that ran along the outside of the park. “Oh, you
poor thing!” she murmured softly.
Rob shook his head, trying to clear it. Who was
she talkintgo ?
“Look, Rob!” she repeated. Dierdre sat back on
her heels and pointed.
A small, ginger-dogc woasl stouckr healdfwa y
under the fence, whimpering.
A dog! Robin thought in disgust. Everything was
going fine, and then a stupid mutt has to ruin it!
Dierdre reached through the wires and petted
the dog’s head. “We'll help you out, cutie,” she
cooed.
The dog licked her hand.
Dierdre laughed.
Pi kill them both, right now, Robin decided.
Dierdre first. Then the mutt. That will teach it to
wremyc pklan s.
“Give me a hand, will you, Rob?” Dierdre asked.
She kept cooing at the dog. Trying to free it.
“Sure.” Robin hefted the hammer again and
took a quick glance around.
And froze.
Three workers strode along the path toward the
workstation.
Dierdre saw them, too. “Robin, ask those guys if
they have some wirecuort stomeetrhinsg. ”
“Sure.” Robin knew he had no choice. He hur-
68

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
ried to the workstation and replaced the hammer.
By the time the workers reached him, he was able
to smile as he told them about the dog.
But inside, he seethed with frustration.
He’d come so close.
Still, things weren’t totally ruined. He’d have
other chanatc Dieersdre .
And the park opened tomorrow. The place
would be packed with people.
Robin grinned.
He could have a lot of “fun” in a crowded
amusement park.
Alone in the mansion on Fear Street, Meghan
paced tensely back and forth across the library
floor. Every few seconds, she glanced at the ornate
black clock on the mantel.
Almost seven-thirty now. Robin had left for Fear
Park an hour ago. She’d pleaded with him not to
go.
“It’s the grand opening, Meghan,” he said as he
kissed her good-bye. “I have such a strong feeling
that something might go wrong tonight. I have to
be thetor preote ct the Bradandl thee pyarks fr om
the Fear curse. I’m the only one who can.”
Meghan knew he was right. But that didn’t stop
her from worrying. Robin had been protectintgh e
Bradleys for so long. How much longer could he do
it?
69

_ FEAR PARK
He was wonderful, the most incredible guy Meg-
han had ever known. But he was all alone in this
fight. He wouldn’t let Meghan help him. He wanted
to protheerc, ttoo .
Meghan rubbed her arms against the chill air and
glanced at the clock again. The feeling of dread
grew stronger as the seconds ticked by.
The Fear curse is so strong! she thought. Robin
can’t fight it by himself. He can’t go on trying to
protect the Bradleys and the park without help!
As the clock chimed the half hour, Meghan raced
from the library and down the long hall toward the
side door. Terror washed over her as she yanked
the door open. She’d been outside the mansion
only a few times since Robin made her immortal.
And never by herself. What if something went
wrong?
You have to go, Meghan told herself. You have to
be with Robin tonight!
Forcing the terror down, Meghan left the man-
sion grounds and walked quickly along Fear Street,
towather pdar k.
People on foot and in cars crowded the sidewalk
and the street. Teenagers, families with little kids,
older people walking hand in hand.
Meghan gazed around. Everything had changed
so much. The cars were sleek and fast. And so
many girls wore jeans, or dresses with hems way
ZO

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
above their knees. Some boys actually wore pony-
tails and ... earrings! And everyone seemed to
wear sneakers—even the older people!
They all look so happy, Meghan thought as she
hurried down the sidewalk. So excited about going
to Fear Park. They don’t know about the Fear
curse. They have no idea that something might go
terribly wrong tonight.
The line at the admissions booth seemed to
stretch for miles. As Meghan waited, she scanned
the crowds inside the park, hoping to spot Robin.
No sign of him. But no sign of any trouble yet,
either, thank goodness.
At last she reached the head of the line and
bought a ticket. Her mouth felt dry and her heart
beat painfully as she hurried through the entrance
gate.
The place was magical!
Meghan couldn’t help wishing she were here to
have fun like everyone else. Clowns roamed the
walkways, giving out free balloons. The aroma of
hot dogs and hamburgers and cotton candy filled
the air.
A carousel with the most beautiful wooden
horses spun around and around. Meghan stopped
for just a moment and watched it. Its flashing lights
and bouncy music actually made her smile. She
loved carousels.
71

_ FEAR PARK
A sudden wild shriek rose above all the other —
noises, and Meghan jumped, her heart pounding.
But it was only a group of kids, climbing in for a
ride through the Tunnel of Love.
Meghan quickly turned away from the carousel.
She couldn’t waste time. She had to find Robin.
Threading her way quickly through the crowd,
Meghan hurried toward the Ferris wheel, where
Robin worked. It soared high above the park,
makiti easny tgo fi nd.
Let Robin be all right, Meghan thought. Let
everytbeh aill nriggh t!
A long line of people stood near the base of
the giant wheel, waitto iboanrdg on e of the little
cars. Meghan rose up on tiptoe, craning her neck
to see the little booth where Robin worked the
controls.
But someone else was at the controls. Not Robin.
Meghan scanned the crowd carefully, trying to find
him. He had to be here. He wouldn’t leave.
An icy pinprick shot up Meghan’s spine.
Robin wouldn’t leave the Ferris wheel.
Unless something had gone very wrong.
That musbet i t, she thouign hpatnic . Something
is wrong. Robin is in trouble! I have to find him!
Meghan’s hands began to shake. She shoved
them into the pockets of her skirt and turned away
from the Ferris wheel.
72

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
To her surprise, Robin stood across the walk
from her.
Meghan opened her mouth to call him.
But his name died on her lips.
And all that came out was a cry of shock and
horror.
73

cnaPle,
12
H., are you okay?” a man asked,
hearing Meghan’s cry.
“I'm fine. Too many rides on the merry-go-
round,” Meghan lied. She brushed quickly past the
man. She kept her eyes on Robin, but she didn’t
run to him.
Robin was busy.
Busy kissing a girl.
Smoothing down the girl’s dark hair with his
hands. Holding her close against him.
Hot anger boiled up inside her as Meghan stared
at the romantic scene. Her hands began to shake
again, this time from anger. Tears spilled over her
eyes and dripped from her chin.
Robin kissed the girl again.
Meghan couldn’t watch anymore.
Shaking with rage, cuteeiterse Roa:
the crowd and began to run home.
74

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Home! she thought bitterly as she ran. It’s not
my home—imyt p’risson !
And Robin Fear is the prison keeper.
Pm the only one who can fight the curse on the
park, he had told her over and over. I’m the only
one who can protect the Bradleys.
That liar! No wondhee dirdn ’t want Meghan’s
help. He had a big romangcoieng . The last thingh e
needed was his old girlfriend tagging along.
His old girlfriend.
Meghan sobbed as she ran out the park entrance.
He made me immortal so we could be together
forBeut vhe ebetrraye.d m e! He’s been out having
fun, kissing some other girl, and I’ve been stuck
inside that cold stone mansion.
A ghost, that’s what Pve been!
And what about the curse, anyway? she won-
dered. Was it true? Or had Robin made it up?
He wasn’t worried about the curse tonight. The
whole park could have blown up while he was
kissing that girl. And he wouldn’t have noticed!
Had he been lying to her about the curse? About
protthee parck atnd ithe nBragdley s?
Had Robin lied to her about everything?
If he has, Pll teach him a lesson, Meghan vowed.
He has made me live a life that isn’t a life at all.
But Pll find a way to pay him back!
* ¢€ &
75S

FEAR PARK
“You look great tonight, Dierdre,” Robin mur-
mured. His lips grazed her ear as he spoke. “I wish
we could stay like this forever.”
“Me, too.” She tilted her head back and gazed at
him. Her short, green dress matched her eyes.
“When you kiss me, I forget all the bad stuff that’s
happened.” She laughed. “Maybe you should just
kiss me all night.”
~ “That’s not a bad idea.” Robin grinned and
kissed her again. _
Then he rested his chin on the top of Dierdre’s
head and gazed around the crowded park. At the
laughing couples. The excited little kids. The
clowns with their giant, painted-on smiles.
The sight of it all turned Robin’s stomach.
The park should never even have been built. And
now it was actually open!
He wished he could kill every person in it!
Anger pulsed through him. But Dierdre didn’t
even feel his fury. “You know what?” she asked. “I
haven’t been able to eat for days, but now I’m
actually hungry! Must be all the food smells float-
ing through the air. Let’s get a hot dog, okay? And a
sno-cone!”
“Excellent!” Robin agreed, even though the
thought of eating anything at this park made him
gag. As he took Dierdre’s hand, he checked his
watch. “Uh-oh.”
76

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
“What?” she asked. “Don’t tell me your break is
over already!”
Robin nodded. “Almost. And I really have to
finish out my shift at the Ferris wheel. The guy
who’s running it now is new. If it breaks down or
something, he won’t have a clue how to fix it.”
Dierdre gazed up at the brightly lighted wheel
circling the sky. “Don’t talk about it breaking
down,” she pleaded. “It reminds me of Paul.”
“Hey.” Robin squeezed her hand. “Nothing bad
is going to happen to the Ferris wheel.”
But something terrible is about to happen to you,
he thought as an idea suddenly popped into his
head.
And I know exactly what it is!
I’ve decided what the next “tragedy” will be.
Robin tugged Dierdreh’ansd. “I just had a great
idea,” he told her. “I still have a few minutes on my
break. So how about a free ride?”
“On the Ferris wheel?” she asked as he pulled
her through the crowd. “Oh, Rob, ’'m not sure. I
keep thinki.n .g . ” Her voice trailed off.
“Look at it this way,” Robin urged. “You know
how everybody says when you fall off a horse you
havet o climb right back.on, or you'll nevedro it?”
“Yes, but...”
“Well, think of the Ferris wheel as your horse,”
he told her. “I know how scared you are of it. AndI
77

FEAR PARK
know why. But once you get on it, and you havea
safe ride, ail your awful memories will disappear.”
“You really think so?” Dierdre asked.
“I’m positive,” Robin insisted.
Except your ride won’t be safe, Robin thought to
himself. You'll climb on that horse, but you'll fall
right off again.
Pil make sure of it.
_ Because Ill be up on the Ferris wheel with you,
Dierdre. Way up in the sky, in that little, swaying
car.
And Pil send you flying right off the top.
You'll make a lovely puddle when you land,
Dierdre. A lovely puddle at the doorstep of your
father’s office!
The big wheel had stopped to reload passengers.
Giving her a confident smile, Robin pulled her
toward the waiting car.
“How about it?” he asked, holding the seat.
Dierdre gazed at the car for a moment, biting her
lip. Then she took a deep breath. “Okay!” she
agreed. “I’m ready to get rid of all those awful
memories!”
Good, Robin thought. Because ’'m ready to get
rid of you.
78

cnaPle,
13
|:S ee tipped the car down to make
it easier for Dierdre to climb in. He held out his
other hand to her. “This is going to be great,” he
told her enthusiastically. “You won’t believe how
beautiful the park looks from so far up. All the
lights spread out below, and everybody looks so
small. And there we'll be—on top of the world.
Together.”
Dierdre grinned. “Sounds awesome.”
“Definitely,” Robin agreed.
But not for you, Dierdre.
Not for long, anyway.
Oh, you might get a couple of spins. A few
glances down at your father’s monstrosity. But the
second our car stops up there at the top, you’ll be
on your way to the very bottom of the world!
As Dierdre tohois khan d, Robin’s heart began to
79

7
FEAR PARK
beat in anticipation. This is it, he told himself. This
is the beginniofn gth e end of Fear Park!
A deafening explosion shook the air.
Dierdre dropped Robin’s hand and jumped away
from him, terror in her eyes. ““What’s that?” she
Another explosion erupted, followed by voices
shoanud sctreaimingn ing pan ic.
“Rob, what is it?” Dierdre cried. “What’s hap-
ing?”
“It’s just the Inferno. Look.” Robin pointed
across the midway.
The Inferno was Fear Park’s most exciting roller
coaster. It looped the loop at top speed, sending its
riders upside down six times. And its terrifying run
ended in an explosion of shattered tracks and cars
consubym feladmes .
The flames and broken tracks were all an illu-
sion. A special effect. But a very real-looking illu-
sion.
The fake flames still roared as the line of roller-
coaster cars coasted to a stop. But the riders had
stopped screaming, and they laughed and chattered
in amazaes thmey eclinmbetd o ff.
“Look at those people. They had a great time,”
Robin assured Dierdre.
“Yeah.” Dierdre took a shaky breath. “I guess
Pm still nervous. I should know the sound of the
Infernoby now.”
80

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
“It surprised you, that’s all.” Just the way ’m
about to surprise you, Robin thought. “Come on,
let’s get on the Ferris wheel. We’re holding up the
line.”
Robin reached for her hand again, but Dierdre
pulled back.
“T can’t, Rob.” She stepped away from the car to
make room for the next people in line. “Maybe ’'m
being silly, but I’m just too nervous to go on a ride
right now.”
So close, he thought. I was so close!
“Oh, Rob, Pm sorry! I can tell you’re disap-
pointed.” Dierdre stood on tiptoe and kissed his
cheek. “We'll go on it together later, okay?”
“You mean it?” Robin asked. “I don’t want to
foryouc toe... ”
“No, Pm going to do it. I really am,” Dierdre
insisted. “Finish your shift, and Pll walk around
for a while. But I promise P’ll come back and we'll
ritod thee t op of the world together.”
And Pill hold you to that promise, Robin
thought. ““That’s great,” he said. “And don’t worry,
Dierdre.”
“I won’t.” Dierdre kissed him again. “I know
everytgohingi tno bge ’gresat .”
No you don’t, Robin thought as he watched her
walk away. You have absolutely no idea how horri-
ble everythgioinngg t’os be .
x & *
81

FEAR PARK
“Up next—tragedy at Fear Park,” the newscast-
er announced. “Stay tuned.”
As the television went to a commercial, Jared
grabbed the remote from his bedside table. He
stabbed the button and changed the station. Com-
mercials there, too.
Jared switched back to Channel Four and waited
tensely for the news to return. He dreaded hearing
it, but he had to know.
What if he and his friends had left some kind of
evidence? Maybe something had fallen from one of
their pockets. And what if those two security
guards discovered that he and his friends hadn’t
been working on the food stand? They’d start
putting two and two together. We are in big trou-
ble, Jared thought. Major trouble.
“Hey, Jared, turn that stupid television off!”
Kevin pleaded for the hundredth time. “If the
police thought we were messed up in Gunther’s
death, they would have been banging at our doors
already!”
“He’s right,” Steve agreed, restlessly twisting his
ponytail around a finger. “We're in the clear, man.”
“We were in the clear, anyway,” Joey reminded
them. “We didn’t push the jerk off that cliff,
remember?”
“No. But we...”
“Shut up!” Jared snapped. “The news is back.”
The newscaster’s expression turned grim. “The
82

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
body of Stephen Gunther, aged forty-five, was
discovered last night at the bottom of a cliff in the
Fear Park Wild Animal Preserve. The preserve
manager’s body was horribly mauled by lions,
although an examination showed that he was killed
in the fall, and not by the lions themselves.”
The scene switched to an interview with Jason
Bradley. “Mr. Gunther was a valued employee,”
Bradley claimed in a solemn voice. “His death was
a tragic accident, and we'll miss him.”
The newscaster returned. “The weather
forecast—right after these messages.”
“See? The Bradley guy said it was an accident,”
Kevin declared as Jared turned the TV off. “No-
body blames us.”
“How could they blame us?” Joey asked, ““No-
body knew we were up there.”
“Rob Fear knew it,” Jared reminded him.
“Oh.” Joey’s face fell. “Right.”
“Man! I forgot about him!” Kevin pounded a fist
into the couch cushion. “You think he thinks we
did it?”
“I don’t know. But if he does, we have to set him
straight.” Jared stood up and grabbed his car keys.
“Come on. We’ve got to go to Fear Park and tell
him.”
Robin Fear has to believe us, Jared thought as he
and the others drove toward the amusement park.
He’s the only one who knew we were up on that
83

FEAR PARK
cliff. He’s the only one who might suspect.uosf
killing Gunther.
But we didnd’ot it !
He has to believues !
Cars lined both sides of every street for blocks.
The public lot was jammed. Jared had to park
twelve blocks away. As he and the others hurried
toward Fear Park, his heart hammered so hard and
fasth e thouigth mitgh t explode.
Breathless, Jared dashed up to the admissions
booth. An older man with thick glasses sat inside.
“How many tickets?” he asked in a quavering
Voice.
Jared shook his head. “We don’t want to go on
any rides or anything,” he told the man. “We're
here to see a friend—Rob Fear. He runs the Ferris
wheel.”
“Pardon?” The man peered at Jared through his
glasses. “How many tickets did you say?”
“We don’t need tickets. We just need to talk to
somebody,” Jared repeated.
The guy shook his head. “Sorry, son. Can’t let
you in withao tiucktet. ”
“How many times do I have to tell you? We don’t
want to use the stupid park,” Jared declared
through gritted teeth. ““We only came to talk to Rob
Fear.”
“T can’t take your word for that, can I?” the man
84

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
asked. “If Il et you and your friends in, who’s to say
you won’t decide to sample every ride for free?”
“T say!’ Jared insisted. Behind him, he heard
coins jingling as his buddies went through their
pockets. He turned around and glared at them.
““We’re not paying!” he snapped. “Put your money
away. We’re not riding, so we’re not paying!”
“Then you’re not getting into the park,” the old
man told him.
“We have to!” Jared yelled. ““We have to talk to
Rob Fear!” In a rage, he reached across the counter,
grabbed the man by the front of his shirt and
yanked him to his feet.
“We have to talk to him! We downant’ tto ri de
anything!” Jared shouted. He shook the man. “Can
you hear me now? We have to talk to Rob Fear!”
Out of control, Jared kept shaking the guy. He
heard his friends shouting at him, but he didn’t
care. He just kept yelling and shaking the old guy.
“Are you going to let us in now, huh?” Jared
screamed. “Huh? You going to let us in?”
The man’s head wobbled wildly. His glasses flew
off. Jared kept shaking. Harder. Harder.
And then the man’s head stumped.
Jared stared at him, gasping for breath.
“You killed him!” Joey cried. “You killed him,
Jared!”
85

re
qnaPle,
14
ared froze. I couldn’t have killed him!
he thought. I didn’t shake him that hard!
The guy wasn’t young, though. And his neck was
kionf sdkinn y. It wouldn’t take much to snap a
neck as skinny as that.
Did I really do it? Jared wondered. Did I really
kili him? .
“Hey!” A voice cried out from nearby. “What’s
going on there?”
Jared glanced toward the walk leading out of the
park.
‘Two Fear Park security guards rushed toward the
admissions booth.
“Oh, man!” Steve groaned. “We're toast!”
I didn’t mean to kill him! Jared thought. He just
wouldn’t listen to me!
Too late to run. Too late.
“What’s going on?” one of the security men
86

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
repeated as he and his partner ran up. “What’s the
matter with Mr. Jenkins?”
“JT...” Jared swallowed. “I think he’s...”
“Ooobhbh!” A weak voice moaned. “Oh, my
head. My neck!”
Jared spun around.
The old man was alive!
“My neck!” Jenkins moaned again. As he turned
his head back and forth, he felt around for his
glasses and stuck them on his nose. He blinked a
few times, and then his pale-blue eyes focused on
Jared.
“You!” he cried.
“What about him?” one of the security guards
asked.
“He didn’t want to pay for a ticket!’ Jenkins
complained. “He tried to break my neck!”
“T didn’t!” Jared declared. “I didn’t try to hurt
him!”
The first guard clamped a hand on Jared’s shoul-
der. “On your way, buddy,” he growled.
Jared tried to shrug him off, but the guy tight-
ened his grip. “You can’t kick us out,” Jared
argued. “Not if we pay for tickets.”
The second guard laughed. “You should have
paid for them in the first place, pal. Now, take a
walk.”
The two husky guards herded Jared and his
87

FEAR PARK
friends away from the booth and stood watch until
they were out of sight.
Jamming his hands in his pockets, Jared strode
ahead of the others. Fear Park! he thought bitterly.
The whole place stinks. I wish I could turn it upside
down!
Jared stumbled on a rock in the middle of the
sidewalk and almost lost his balance. Furious, he
gave the rock a swift kick. It clattered off the
pavement and came to rest near a hole in the fence
surroundthie npagrk .
A hole in the fence. Jared stopped and studied it
for a moment. Slowly, a grin began to spread across
his face.
He had an idea.
Excited, Jared hustled his friends back to the car
and quickly drove them to his house. Up in his
room, he rummaged through his closet and pulled
out a green metal box.
“Are you going to tell us what you’re doinorg d o
we have to guess?” Kevin asked impatiently.
“Yeah,” Joey agreed. “What are you smiling
about, anyway? Whasto ’funsny? ”
“Nothing’s funny—yet,” Jared told them. “But I
figured out how to get us inside Fear Park. And
once we’re in there, we’re goitno hgav e ourselvesa
whole lot of fun!”
Grinning again, Jared opened the box.
* *& &
88

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
There’s still plenty of time, Robin thought as he
finished his final shift. The park will be open for
another two hours. All I have to do now is find
Dierdre and get her on the Ferris wheel.
He pushed his way through the crowded park.
But he stopped when he spotted Jared Malone and
his buddies by the House of Mirrors.
Hey—they’re not waiting in line to get in, Robin
realized.
The four guys are sneaking in through an emer-
gency exit door.
What are they up to?
Robin waited until the last one had disappeared.
Then he quickly followed them inside.
Laughter and shouting echoed through the maze
of mirror-lined hallways. Robin hung back until
Jared and his friends turned a corner. Then he
hurried to catch up.
Rounding the corner, he saw the four guys at the
end of a line of people. But they weren’t staring and
laughing at their distorted images like everyone
else.
Still hanging back, Robin saw Jared reach into
his pocket and bring something out. Then he knelt
down and placed it at the foot of the mirror.
His buddies snickered.
Robin smiled.
A firecracker. Jared had just planted a fire-
cracker.
89

FEAR PARK
Hidden, Robin watched as Jared planteda dozen
more firecrackers. By then, he’d seen enough. As he
turned to leave, he stumbled and fell against one of
the mirrors.
The glass didn’t break, but it rattled loudly
enough to catch Jared’s attention.
Jared took one look at Robin and hustled his
friends around the corner and out of sight.
~ Scared Pil tell on him, Robin realized.
But Pve got something much more interesting in
mind.
Making his way through a line of people mugging
at the mirrors, Robin ducked out of the building
and glanced around, searching for Dierdre again.
There she was, over by the hot dog stand!
“Dierdre!” he shouted, waving.
Dierdre broke into a smile as he hurried over to
her.
Robin gave her a quick kiss. “Hey, have you
checked out the House of Mirrors yet?” he asked
excitedly. “I was just in there, and it’s really
awesome!
“Listen,” he continued. I left my jacket at the
Ferris wheel. Why don’t you go through the Hall of
Mirrors while I run and get it? I'll be waiting for
you when you get out. You’re going to love it!”
As he spoke, Robin steered Dierdre toward the
enttor thae Hanll ocf Mierro rs. He couldnwa’itt t o
get her inside.
90

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Watching Jared and his friends plant those fire-
crackers had given Robin an idea.
An excellent idea.
A perfect way to turn Jared’s juvenile little prank
into something much more interesting.
A major tragedy.
91

onaPlep,
15
rsm y"
ou'll love it, Dierdre!” Robin
nudged her closer to the entrance.
But Dierdre stopin phere trdack s. “I can’got i n
there,” she told him. “I have to run an errand for
Dad. Channel Five wants to interview him, They
have a minicam crew here. Anyway, he asked me to
get him a tie from his office.”
She stood on tiptoe and quickly kissed Robin on
the cheek. “I'll be back in a few minutes, and then
we'll have some fun!”
Wrong, Dierdre, Robin thought as he watched
her run toward her father’s office. You won’t have
any fun at all.
But I will.
Pil have a blast!
Robin turned back to the House of Mirrors.
He could hear the people inside, shrieking with
laughter.
92

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Too bad Dierdre isn’t with them, he thought. But
I can’t wait for her. I can’t pass up such a perfect
chance. .
Robin closed his eyes. He shut his ears to the
sounds of the park. The crowd swirling around
him. The carousel’s organ music. The barkers
shouting on the midway.
“Jadot kalisto,” he whispered sofily. “Jadot exto
kalisto. 2 |
As Robin chanted a spell from one of the ancient
books, he could feel its strength begin to build.
It’s working! he thought.
“Exto denota.”
The power of the chant continued to grow, until
Robin could practically feel it around him in the
air. Now for the final line, he thought.
“Denota jadot kalisto!”’
Robin snapped his eyes open.
For a split second, everything remained the same
as it had been.
Robin waited tensely.
The air vibrated.
The ground trembled.
The whole worid seemed to tilt.
And then a deafening explosion shook the
ground as the House of Mirrors blew.
Robin stared at it. At his beautiful handiwork.
Sharp, deadly shards of glass shot through the
93

FEAR PARK
air, slicing into the screaming, terrified crowd
trying to escape.
You can’t escape! Robin told them silently.
Shrieks of horror, of pain, echoed through the
park.
Music to my ears, Robin thought.
A body with no head landed with a thump at
Robin’s feet. Blood poured from the jagged open:
neck, darkening the ground. Robin stepped aside
so he could keep watching the deliciously gruesome
spectacle.
An arm. A leg. A hand. Ragged pieces of flesh.
Legs chopped off at the knee. People stabbed and
bleeding. Crying and moaning. Screaming for heip.
People dashed around in a panic, shouting for
ambulances. For doctors. For help of any kind.
Robin knew that some would survive. But more
were dead.
Or would die soon.
A sudden shout caught his attention. Robin
turned and saw Jason Bradley racing toward the
horrifying scene, a blue-striped tie flying from
around his thick neck. Dierdre ran a few feet
behind him, her face twisted in horror.
Bradley must have been getting ready for the TV
interview when disaster struck, Robin thought. He
forced back a smile. What would Bradley say for
the cameras now? Would he promise to refund
everyone’s ticket money?
94

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
As Bragdazeld aet tyhe c ut and bloodied bodies,
his eyes widened in shock. His face drained of
color. He staggered as if someone had punched him
in the stomach.
Robin almost laughed. Looks as ify our opening
night just got spoiled, Bradley!
There’s nothing you can say.
And only one thing you can do—close down
Fear Park.
It’s your last chance to do it while your daugh-
ter’s still alive.
Robin watched Dierdre for a moment. Her en-
tire body shook with horror.
You’re lucky, Dierdre, he told her silently.
Robin stood quietly, gazing around at the bleed-
ing, crying crowd. He glanced at a group of guys
huddled together near an exit gate. Glanced away.
Then quickly looked back at the guys.
Yes. It was Jared and his pals.
They appear so confused, Robin thought hap-
pily. They know their puny little firecrackers could
never have caused such a disaster. But they can’t
igure out what did.
Robin almost laughed as Jared and his friends
broke their huddle and bolted through the gate.
They’re afraid, he thought. They know they
lidn’t do anything, but they’re afraid anyway.
So use that fear! Robin told himself. Go on—do
t now, while you’ve got the chance.
95

FEAR PARK
Putting on an expression of horror and determi-
nation, Robin sprinted over to Jason Bradley. “Mr.
Bradley!” he cried. He gasped, as if he’d been
chasing someone. “I think ...I saw...” Robin
broke off and panted some more.
Bradley grasped his arm. “I know what you
saw,” he muttered in a shaken voice. “We all saw it.
It’s terrible . ... terrible!”
. “No, that’s not it!” Robin gulped in some air.
“Listen to me! I got a good look at the guys who did
this! There were four of them.”
Robin paused, enjoying the dramatic moment.
“And I can describe them to the police!”
96

onePley,
16
A medics rushed past Dierdre, car-
rying a body under a sheet on a stretcher.
Dierdre squeezed her eyes shut. But not before
she saw the large, dark-red stains seeping and
spreading onto the sheet.
So much blood everywhere, she thought.
So much death.
Shutting it out was impossible.
She took a shuddering breath and opened her
eyes.
Her father strode toward her, shaking his head.
Behind her, Dierdre could see Rob. Three police
officers surrounded him.
All wore the same grim expressions as her father.
“What’s going on, Dad?” she demanded when
her father reached her side. “What do the police
want with Rob?”
“Rob saw who did it!” Jason Bradley announced.
97

FEAR PARK
“The explosion?” Dierdre cried. “Who, Dad?
Who was it?”
Her father shook his head. “He doesn’t know
them. But he got a good look at their faces. The
police have a sketch artist. Rob is going to the
station to give her their descriptions right now!”
Dierdre craned her neck and watched as the
police officers hustled Rob away to a waiting car.
“This is an unbelievable break!” Mr. Bradley
declared. ““We’re going to get them, Dierdre. We’re
going to get whoever did this!”
“That’s great, Daddy.” It was great, but Dierdre
couldn’t feel happy or enthusiastic. The destruc-
tion and death had already happened. Catching
who did it wouldn’t make it disappear.
Tears blurred her eyes as Dierdre gazed at the
scene. Red and blue lights on police cars and
ambulances flashed across cut and bleeding bodies.
A severed leg. Ragged pieces of flesh. Dead eyes
staring sightlessly at the sky.
Glass crunched loudly as medics rushed by with
stretchers. Doctors and nurses shouted orders in
hoarse, shocked voices. Moans and sobs still filled
the air.
Dierdre shuddered.
Her father put his arm around her shoulder. “Go
on home, honey,” he told her. “There’s nothing
you can do here.”
“Are you sure?” she asked.
98

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Hen odded. “The whole town has turned out to
help. You go on home,” he insisted. “Try to get
some sleep.”
Sleep would be impossible, Dierdre knew as she
trudged away from the park. How could anyone
sleep after what had happened?
Images from the nightmare scene kept whirling
through her mind. She couldn’t shut them out.
She’d never forget them.
If only she could be with Rob, she thought as she
passed his house on Fear Street. She wantteo dfee l
his arms around her. To hear him tell her every-
thing would be okay.
But Rob’s house was totally dark. He wouldn’t
be back from the police station for hours, probably.
Besides, he couldn’t tell her everything would be
Okay.
Nothing would be all right again. Not after this.
The night was warm, but Dierdre felt cold and
shivery. As she turned up the front walk to her
house, she decided to get into bed with five blan-
kets. She wouldn’t sleep, but at least she’d be
warm.
She pushed open the front door.
An envelope lay on the floor at her feet. Someone
must have slipped it under the door. Probably
some kind of junk mail, she thought.
Dierdre picked it up and carried it down the hall
and into the kitchen. She tossed the envelope on
99

FEAR PARK
the table, then opened a cabinet and took out a box
of cocoa packets. She’d have some hot chocolate
first, then go to bed.
A couple of minutes later, Dierdre sat down at
the table with a steaming mug of microwaved
cocoa. She took a sip and immediately burned her
tongue.
Tears flooded her eyes. She pushed the mug away
and buried her face in her hands. But as soon as she
closed her eyes, she saw the screaming, wounded
people again.
Dierdre sat up and wiped her eyes. Would she
ever get those pictures out of her mind?
Don’t think, she told herself. Do something. Do
anything to keep from thinking about it.
She reached for the envelope andr ippiet odpe n.
Junk mail would distract her, at least for a few
minutes.
But the envelope didn’t contain junk mail.
Instead, Dierdre pulled out a newspaper clip-
ping. An old one, obviously. The paper had yel-
lowed, the black print had faded to pale gray.
Curious, Dierdre carefully spread it open on the
tabletop.
BLOODBATH! the headline screamed at her. SHADY-
SIDE YOUTH HATCHET ONE ANOTHER TO DEATH!
The datone th e article was 1935.
This is definitely not what I need to take my
mind off things, Dierdre thought. I already know
100

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
what happened back in 1935. I already know the
kids were suppotos cheopd u p tree stumpasn d
clear the land for Fear Park. But they went wild for
at each other.
As Dierdre started to crumple the article up, the
photo caught her eye. The caption beneath it read,
SECONDS BEFORE THE TRAGEDY, DOOMED TEENS SMILE
OR THE CAMERA.
A group of about twenty cheerful-looking kids
stared out at Dierdre. One aimed his hatchet at a
ree, a grin frozen on his face. Another had her
aatchet slung over her shoulder. Several waved at
he camera.
Most of them blurirnteo dth e background scen-
ry of tree stumps and bushes.
But the boy in the foregrsotouodn dou t clearly.
Dierdre shivered as she gazed at his face, frozen
n time more than sixty years ago. At the straight
own hair. At the dark eyes.
The dark, serious eyes of Rob Fear.
101

qnaPle,
v6
“Es police officer pulled the cruiser
to a stop in front of the huge stone house on Fear
Street.
He turned to Robin, who sat in the passenger
seat. “Thanks for spending so much time on this.”
“Hey, no problem,” Robin told him. “I just hope
it helps you catch those guys.”
“Your descriptions were good. Lots of detail,”
the cop assured him. “We'll have pictures up all
over town by tomorrow. The newspaper will run
them and they'll be on TV, too. Somebody will
recognize them.”
“J hope so.” Robin opened the door and stepped
onto the sidewalk. “Thanks for the ride, officer.”
“You bet. Thanks for your help,” the cop re-
peated. He pulled the car away from the curb,
giving Robin a friendly wave as he drove off.
102

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Robin smiled and waved back. Sucker! he
thought.
As soon as the car rounded the corner, he threw
his head back and laughed out loud.
He’d done it!
He’d closed down Fear Park.
Bradley wouldn’t dare reopen it, not after to-
night. Not with so many killed and wounded.
People would be outraged.
Robin could hear them protesting now. Fear
Park is jinxed, they’d say. They’d scream that no
amusement park was worth all that blood and all
those deaths.
Jason Bradley would have to listen.
Whistling softly, Robin trotted up the steps and
through the massive double front doors.
Why was the foyer so dark? Meghan always left a
light on for him.
As Robin fumbled for the light switch, he real-
ized the entire house was dark. No light spilled out
from any of the rooms.
“Meghan?” he called. “Why are all the lights
off?”
No answer.
“Meghan?”
The sound of his own voice echoed back at him.
He flipped the foyer light on. The rest of the
house seemed even darker now.
103

FEAR PARK
“Meghan, where are you?” he shouted.
No reply.
The house is too quiet, he thought. It feels
deserted. Where’s Meghan? Why isn’t she waiting
for me as she always does?
He stood still for a moment, holding his breath.
For a few seconds, all he heard was the wind
stirring in the trees outside.
Then, a distant, muffled sound.
Footsteps?
An icy shiver ran down Robin’s spine. Was
someone in the house? Someone who didn’t be-
long?
Robin let his breath out quietly and began to
tiptoe down the long marble hallway. First door on
the left—the dining room. Moonlight filtered in
through cracks in the curtains. The high-backed
chairs cast eerie shadows across the floor. Robin
flipped the switch and the room blazed with light.
Empty.
“Meghan?” Robin called. “Meghan!”
Still no answer.
Where was she?
Robin passed through a door at the back oft he
dining room and into the pantry. Beyond that lay
the kitchen.
Both rooms were empty.
104

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
The side door leading out from the kitchen was
locked. Bolted from the inside.
But something’s wrong, Robin thought. I can feel
it.
Standing still in the middle of the gleaming tile
floor, Robin tilted his head and listened again. All
he heard was the noisy drumbeat of his heart.
He crept quietly out of the kitchen and glanced
down the hall toward the front door. The only light
came from the rooms he’d already been in.
As quietly as possible, Robin pushed open the
door to the library and reached for the light switch.
The room appeared normal. Books on the
shelves. The urn on the mantel. The leather chairs
arranged near the fireplace. Nothing seemed dis-
turbed or out of place.
But the house was dark when I came in, Robin
thought.
And Meghan isn’t here.
Why? Where is she?
An earsplitting scream tore through the silence.
Robin jumped. His heart thundered painfully
against his chest.
The scream echoed down the hall again. Robin
raced out of the library.
“Oh, not I don’t believe it!” a woman’s voice
shrieked. “I just cannot believe this!”
The woman screamed again.
And then she began to laugh.
105

_ FEAR PARK
Standing in the hall, Robin heard others join in,
laughing and clapping and shouting. Music rose
above the voices.
The cheerful, bouncy music of a TV game show.
The TV!
Robin ran down the hall and into the living
room. No one sat on the couch or the chairs. No
one stood at the windows. The room stood empty.
_ A woman’s smiling face peered out from the big-.
screen TV on the far wall. She wrapphere adrm s
around the host’s neck and jumped up and down as
the studio audience cheered.
Robin dashed across the room and punched the
television off.
Silence.
“Ahhhgh!” Another scream tore through the
room. A scream off ury and rage.
A murderous scream.
Robin spun around. “Meghan!”
Meghan stood in the doorway, her face twisted
with hatred.
Her hand gripped a gleaming kitchen knife.
“Meghan! No!” Robin cried again as she rushed
toward him. ~
With a shrill scream, she raised the knife over
her head and brought it down like a hammer.
Robin gasped as he felt the blade plunge deep
into his chest.
106

cnePle,
18
De knife sank easily into his chest.
Meghan shoved it in, down to the handle.
Robin gasped in shock.
“Tl never forgive you!” Meghan screamed. She
twisted the blade in his chest. “Liar! Liar! P’ll never
forgive you!”
With an angry cry, Robin heaved her away. She
stumbled back, caught her foot on a table leg and
sprawled onto the floor in front of him.
Robin reached up and grabbed hold of the knife
handle with both hands.
Once he had a good grip, he tugged.
Slowly but steadily, the knife began to slide out
of his chest.
_ Robin smiled coldly at Meghan. “There’s no
bloseoe?” dhe, sai d. He kept pulling until the blade
slid all the way out. “No blood and no pain.”
He took a step toward her. “Did you forget that
107

FEAR PARK
I’m immortal? That we both are? What’s the mat-
ter with you, anyway? What did I do to deservthei s
attack?”
Meghan scrambled to her feet and gazed at him
angrily. “You made us immortal!” she cried. “I’ve
given my life to you—and you lied to me! You
betrayemde . I'll never forgive you!”
“What are you talking about?” Robin de-
-manded.
“About that girl!” Meghan screamed back.
“What girl?”
“The pretty one, with the dark hair,” Meghan
told him. “You were kissing her at the park earlier
tonight. I saw you!”
Dierdre. Robin’s mind raced as he tried to come
up with a good story.
“I couldn’t stay here tonight,” Meghan ex-
plained. “I had to be with you. I was afraid for you,
out there fighting the curse. All alone.” She laughed
bitterly. “Or so I thought!”
“Meghan, please.” Robin had his story now.
“Listen to me.”
“Why should I?” she demanded.
“So you'll understand,” Robin told her. “That
girl’s name is Dierdre Bradley. Bradley.”
“You mean she’s...”
Robin nodded. “Jason Bradley’s daughter. I got
close to her so I could protect her family, don’t you
108

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
see?” He sighed gently. “Jason Bradley loves his
daughter very much. And he listens to her. That’s
the important thing.”
Meghan gazed at him, a confused expressioni n
her eyes.
“So I figured if I got close to Dierdre, I could get
her to persuade her dad to shut the park down,”
Robin continued. “That’s what I’m working for,
Meghan. To get the park closed before more inno-
cent people die. You know that.”
Meghan kept staring at him.
“I would never betray you,” Robin insisted
softly. “I would never look at Dierdre Bradley if
there weren’t so many lives at stake. You’re the only
girl in my life. The only one I care about. You
believe that, don’t you?”
‘Meghan took a shaky breath. Her shoulders
slumped. She hung her head and gazed at the floor.
Robin stepped close to her. He tilted her chin up
and stared into her eyes. “Don’t you?” he repeated
in a whisper.
Meghan nodded.
Robin wrapped his arms around her and pulled
her to him.
Had she bought his story? he wondered.
Did she believe him?
He couldn’t tell. She had nodded, but her eyes
remained wary and unsure.
109

FEAR PARK
He couldn’t believe she actually came at him
with a knife! Of course, she couldn’t kill him. But
she could get in his way.
I don’t need this, Robin thought. I don’t need
this at all.
In fact, I wonder if I even love Meghan anymore.
I used to. That’s why I made her immortal, too.
But that was a long time ago. Over the years,
she’s become so boring. She never changes. She just
clings to me like a_leech.
And she just tried to kill me!
Maybe I should get rid of her. .
Robin rested his chin on Meghan’s shoulder and
stared down at his hands clasped against her back.
He still held the knife.
It won’t hurt her any more than it did me, he
thought. We’re both immortal.
But there might be a way to kill her. I’ll have to
see.
The sooner the better.
110

CoePle,
19
Ja red peered out the window of the old
Cameron mansion. The streetlights had just come
on. No one out there. “Where’s Steve?” he de-
manded anxiously. “He was supposed to be here by
now.”
“Maybe he stopped for gas,” Kevin suggested.
“He wouidn’t be stupid enough to do that.” Joey
nervously cracked his knuckles. “I mean, he knows
somebody might recognize him. I told him he
should walk here and use the alleys. He said he
would.”
“Then where is he?” Jared repeated. He began
pacing around the room. “We have to figure out
whatot d o! We have to find a better hiding place.
We’re not safe anywhere in Shadyside.”
Kevin and Joey exchanged glances. They haven’t
a clue how much danger we’re in, Jared realized.
111

FEAR PARK
Steve doesn’t either. We're all too scared to think
straight.
He paced around for another minute, then
flicked on the tiny TV Kevin brought with him.
“And now, here’s Cindy with an update on the
Fear Park bombing,” the newscaster announced.
Kevin moaned. “Ob, man, I don’t want to hear
abothisu agtain !”
~ “He said an update,” Jared declared. “We have
to watch in case something new has happened!”
A serious-looking reporter appeared on the
screen. Behind her Jared could see the ruined
Houseo f Mirrors. Park employees moved back and
forth, still cleaninugp .
“It has been almost a week since a bomb blasted
through this Fear Park attraction, killing twelve
people and wounding twenty more,” the reporter
announced.
A bomb. Jared shivered at the words.
“Behind me, workers continue to clean up,” the
reporter went on. “Meanwhile, the entire town of
Shadyside is outraged by this senseless act of
destruction. And police have mounted a statewide
manhunt for the four young killers.”
Jared felt dizzy with fear as the four police
sketches appeared on the screen. He’d seen them
before, but they shocked him every time.
The drawings on the screen were of Jared and his
112

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
frieTnhedy swer.en’ t perfect likenesBsuet sth.e y
were pretty close.
It’s unbelhei theoughvt, ahisb stlomaech ,twis t-
ing inat konot .
The whole town thinks we’re bombers.
Killers.
The whole town is after us!
“Shortly after the bombing, a witness came
forward and described these four young men to the
police,” the reporter continued. “Thhaeve ysin ce
been identified. They were seen fleeing the park
minutes after the explosion. Police are asking any-
one with infortom caall tthie foollnowi ng
number—555-—2662. That’s 555-BOMB.”
But we’re not bombers! Jared thought in a panic.
We're not killers. All we did was plant a few tiny
firecrackers!
Jared wanted to run into the street and shout his
innocence. But he was too scared. Ever since those
sketches had appeared two days ago, he and his
budhadd beien ein hsidi ng.
The whole town is out for blood, Jared thought,
his heart racing. If they find us, they'll probably
lynch us!
Behind him, Kevin moaned again. “Oh, man, we
are in major, major trouble! What are we going to
do?”
‘My uncle has a cabin upstate,” Joey told him.
113

FEAR PARK
“It’s in the middle of nowhere. We could hide out
there.”
“How are we supposed to get out of town?”
Kevin pointed to the television, which now showed
the highway patrol questioning drivers at an exit to
the freeway. “They've got roadblocks up all over
with cops.” His voice rose in panic. “What are we
supposed to do—get beamed out of here?”
“Okay, okay. Don’t freak out,” Joey said. “It was
juasn itdea .”
“Yeah, well, it was a dumb idea,” Kevin shot
back.
As his friends argued, Jared kept staring at the
TV. He hoped the update might bring some good
neBwut sit d.idn ’t.
Nothing has changed, he thought. We’re still
being hunted.
He jammed his hands in his pockets and began
to pace again.
Should we turn ourselves in? he wondered. Tell
the cops what happenedwe— pltanhteda. tfir e-
crackers? That we didn’t set any bomb? That we
ran becwae wueres sceare d?
It’s the truth, he thought. They have to believe
us!
Yeah, sure, Jared! he told himself in disgust.
They might believe you. But by then it'll be too
114

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
late. Because they'll shoot first and ask questions
later!
The television picture switched back to the re-
porter, who was interviJaesown iBrnadlgey . Brad-
ley talked about how the workers had been cleaning
up night and day. And about reopening the park as
soaso posnsibl e.
The camera panned over the cleanup crew.
Zooin mfore a cdlose up.
For the first time in days, Jared felt a twinge of
hope.
The camera focused on a member of the cleanup
crew that Jared recognized—RFoeabr .
Rob can heip us, Jared realized.
He saw us in the House of Mirrors.
He knew we planted firecrackers.
He knows we didn’t plant a bomb.
I have to talk to him, Jared thought. He’s the
only one who knows the truth! He’s the only one in
Shadywhos cain dsavee u s!
He punched the remote and turned to his bud-
dies. “I think I have some good news!” he told
them excitedly. “Remember when we—”
A loud knock on the bedroom door interrupted
Jared.
“Open up!” a voice shouted from the other side
of the door. “It’s the police!”
115

cnaPle,
20
hones heart raced. Beads of sweat
prickhilse fadce .
It’s too late! he thought. The cops already found
us!
He glanced at Kevin and Joey. They huddled in
the corner, their mouths open in terror.
“Open up!” the voice repeated.
Jared’s eyes shot to the window. No. No way.
You can’t escape, he warned himself. They proba-
bly have the place surrounded. You have to open
the door and take your chances.
Jared sucked in a deep breath and walked un-
steadily to the door. His hand shook as he reached
for the knob.
Slowly, he eased the door open a crack.
“Gotcha!” Steve cried, leaping into the room. He
went into a crouch and pointed an imaginary gun.
“Up against the wall, turkeys!”
116

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Jared slammed the door so hard the walls shook.
“You jerk!” he screamed. He grabbed Steve by the
front of his T-shirt, then shoved him backward
against a chair. “You dumb, stupid jerk!”
“Hey, it was just a joke!” Steve protested,
sprawontlo ithen fgloo r.
“Yeah, well, your timing stinks,” Kevin snarled.
“You think this mess is funny?” Jared de-
manded. “Twelve people died and everybody
thiwne dkids it !”
“Okay, Pm sorry,” Steve mumbled. He scram-
bled to his feet and straightheisn sehidrt .
“You were lucky,” Jared insisted. “So stop play-
ing games!” Jared breathed deeply again to calm
himself down. “Okay, listen. I think I figured out a
way to get us in the clear. Remember when we were
platnhe tfiriecrnackgers ?”
The others nodded.
“Well, Rob Fear saw us,” Jared told them.
“Yeah, he saw us planting firecrackerKse,v”in
remhiim. “nThat’ds neot sdo goo d.”
“Don’t you get it?” Jared replied. “If he saw us
planting firecrackers, then he knows we didn’t set
off any bomb. He can tell the cops they’re looking
for the wrong guys.”
“Why hasn’t he set the cops straight already?”
Steve asked.
Jared shrugged. “He probably hasn’t even seen
the police sketches. They said on the news that
117

FEAR PARK |
workers have been working around the clock to
clean up the park. And Rob is one of them. So
here’s what we do—-we wait until it’s really dark,
then we sneak back into the park.”
“Oh, man, that’s the last place I want to go!”
Joey declared.
“Me, too,” Jared agreed. “But we have to. Be-
cause Rob Fear is the only one who can help us.”
Robin swept a mass of glass and rubble into a
large pile, then leaned on the broom and wiped his
forehead. He was tired, but he actually enjoyed the
work. It gave him a chance to admire his handi-
wourp cklos e.
Jason Bradley strode by and patted him on the
shoulder. “I appreciate all you’re doing, Rob,” he
said wearily. “You're a big help.”
“It’s the least I can do, Mr. Bradley.” Robin
shook his head in frustration as Bradley walked
away. The guy still looks like he’s in shock, he
thought. But he hasn't given in yet.
He hasn’t announced that he’s shutting down the
park.
No matter. Pil just keep hitting him with one
disaster after another. An explosion here. An “acci-
dent” there. A few more deaths.
Smiling, Robin lifted the broom and began
sweeping again.
118

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Sticking it to the Bradleys was the most fun he’d
had in a long time.
“Rob?”
He turned to see Dierdre striding toward him,
clutching a piece of paper in one hand.
“I haven’t seen you for days, Rob,” Dierdre
declared. “You haven’t even called.”
“I know. [m sorry.” Robin gestured at the
cleanup operation. “I wanted to, but I’ve been
really busy. P've only gone home once, and I fell
asleep the second I sat down in a chair. I didn’t
even make it to my bed.”
Dierdre gazed at him suspiciously.
What does she want, anyway? Robin wondered.
As far as she knows, I’m knocking myself out to
help her father. She should be grateful.
“['ve been busy, too, Rob,” Dierdre told him.
She held up the piece of paper. “Busy wondering
about this!”
Robin’s mouth went dry as he stared at the old
newspaper photograph of himself.
“Somebody slipped this under my door,” Dier-
dre told him, jabbing at the photo. “Look at it. It’s
you, Rob! What on earth is going on?”
Robin’s mind raced in panic. Who sent that old
photo to Dierdre? Who was trying to expose him,
to bring him down? Who even knew the connection
between the Rob Fear oft oday and the Robin Fear
of 1935? Nobody!
119

FEAR PARK —
Nobody except Meghan.
Robin’s blood ran cold. Meghan did this! She
didn’t believe my story about Dierdre.
And now she’s out to get me!
Dierdre tapped her foot. “Well? What’s going
on?” she repeated. “I mean, this is a picture of you,
right?”
“It...” Robin paused, trying to come up with
an explanation. Finally, he had one. He swallowed
his anger at Meghan and faked a laugh. “It sure
looks like it. Weird, huh?”
“Very weird,” Dierdre agreed.
“Yeah.” Robin laughed again. “I can’t believe
how much I look like my grandfather!”
“Your grandDfieradret qhuickely rstu?die”d t he
photograph.
“Who else?” Robin asked.
Dierdre nodded. “I guess I should have realized
it couldn’t be you,” she murmured. “When I got
this, I was so confused and scared, I didn’t even
think it might be your grandfather.”
“Hey, it surprised me, too,” Robin told her. “I
mean, the two of us could have been twins. I’m
definitely a better dresser, though,” he joked.
“Look at those overalldons’t— evtenh reeachy h is
ankles!”
Dierdre snickered. But then her expression
120

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
turned serious again. “I don’t get it. Why did
somebody send this to me?”
Robin shrugged. “Maybe it was a joke,” he
suggested. “Or maybe somebody wanted to cause
trouble between us.” He smiled at her. “It didn’t
work, I hope.”
“Well, it almost did,” Dierdre replied thought-
fully. She stuffed the article into the pocket of her
denim shorts. Then she wrapped her arms around
his neck and kissed him. “I’m sorry, Rob.” She
kissed him again. “Forgive me?”
“You don’t even have to ask,” Robin insisted,
kissing her back.
“Gotta go,” Dierdre told him, giving him one
last kiss. “I know how hard you’ve been working,
But call me when you can.”
“You know I will.” Robin waited until Dierdre
was out of sight. Then he dropped the broom and
strode angrily to the telephone beside one of the
>quipment sheds. His fingers shook with fury as he
dropped in the coins and punched the number to
his house.
“It’s me,” he snarled when Meghan answered the
phone.
“Robin, hi. What’s your problem?” she asked.
“You sound weird.”
“I don’t feel weird,” Robin replied through grit-
ed teeth. “I feel betrayed, Meghan!”
121

FEAR PARK
“What do you mean? Who betrayed you?”
“You did! You sent that photo to Dierdre!” he
cried. “How could you do that to me?”
“Robin, I didn’t do anything to you!” Meghan
protested. “What photo are you talking about?”
“Don’t play dumb!” Robin screamed. “You
know which photo—the one from 1935. The one
that shows me standing in the woods with you and
- your friends.”
“This is crazy!” Meghan cried. “I didn’t send
anythtoi Dinerdgre ! I don’t even have any photo to
send!”
Can I believe her? Robin onda’
“Robin, I didn’t do it!” Meghan insisted.
Robin slammed down the receiver.
I have to get rid of Meghan as soon as possible,
he decided. She definihtase tlo ygo .
Still, she sounded awfully convincing. And she
was never a good liar, he reminded himself.
But if Meghan didn’t send the old photo to
Dierdre, who did?
Someone else who knew, he thought. Someone
else who was alive then.
Had someone else followed him from 1935?
Robin’s heart pounded with fear.
As he moved away from the telephone, he heard
a sudden rustling sound from the equipment shed.
He started to turn.
122

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Too late.
A hand shot out and grabbed him from behind.
An arm pressed against Robin’s throat like an
iron bar.
“Don’t make a sound,” a voice hissed into his
ear.
123

naPte,
21
Roisin tintin
use. The arm dug deeply into his throat, choking
him as he was dragged roughly into the darkness of
the equipment shed.
When they reached the very back of the shed, the
attacker finally let go.
Robin fell against the toolbench. He sucked in a
great gulp of air.
Someone moved behind him. Robin clenched his
fists and slowly turned around.
Jared and his three buddies stood in front of
him.
“What were you trying to do—strangle me?”
Robin rubbed his throat.
“Keep your voice down!” Jared glanced fearfully
toward the shed door, then back at Robin. “Sorry,
man,” he whispered. “I told Kevin not to hurt you.
124

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
But I had to get you in here without anyone
spotting us!”
“Next time, try asking me,” Robin angrily
snapped. He rubbed his neck again and frowned.
“Okay. What’s this all about?”
Jared pulled a police flyer from his pocket and
hanidt teo Rdobi n.
300d likenesses, he thought. I wonder why these
idiots haven’t been picked up yet.
“The cops think we set that bomb!” Jared whis-
ered hoarsely.
“Yeah, but we didn’t do it,” the ponytaileodn e
jeclared. “And Jared says you know we didn’t.”
“That’s right,” Robin agreed. “I saw you plant-
ng firecnotr a abombc. Tkhise isr ridsicul,ous. I
laven’t seen these drawings before, or I would have
aid something.”
“So will you say something now?” Jared pleaded.
“You have to! You’re the only one who knowtsh e
ruth!”
“Be cool,” Robin told him. “Sure, Pll help you.
"ll go to the cops right now.”
Jared heaved a sigh of relief. “That’s great.
That’s really great! You don’t know how scared
ye’ve been!”
But I can imagine it, Robin thought happily.
‘Okay, you guys wait here,” he told them. “Til put
125

FEAR PARK
a padlock on the outside so no one can get in. And
Pll be back as soon as I’ve talked to the police.”
Jared grabbed Robin’s hand and pumped it
gratefully. “Thanks, Rob. Thanks a lot. We owe
you big time!”
You sure do, Robin thought.
A sly smile spread across his face as he stepped
outside and snapped the padlock onto the shed
~ door.
He just thought of a way for Jared and his
buddies to pay him back.
Still feeling embarrassed, Dierdre ripped the
yellowed news article into pieces and tossed them
‘into the wastepaper basket in her father’s office.
I should never have doubted Rob, she thought.
Of course that was a picture of his grandfather! She
was stupid to think anything else!
Sitting at the desk, she tilted the chair back and
glanced around. The place was a total mess. Cups
half full of cold coffee. Dried-up sandwich crusts.
Papers scattered over everything.
Daddy has been working too hard, she thougtit: I
have to make him get some rest. As soon as he
comes in, Pll grab him and drag him home with
me.
The phone rang. Dierdre picked it up, expecting
another reporter. Or maybe the police. “Hello?”
126

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
“Stay away from Robin Fear,” a hoarse voice
whispered.
Dierdre’s hand tightened on the phone. “Who is
thishes de?man”de d.
“Never mind,” the voice replied. “Just stay away
from Robin. He’s not your friend!”
“Who is this?” Dierdre repeated. Her heart beat
fast and hard. “Did you send me that old photo?
Whareo you ?”
“We have to talk,” the voice whispered urgently.
“Do you hear me? We have to talk—before it’s too
late!”
“Who . . .?” Dierdre gasped.
The line went dead.
Robin spun the padlock and yanked it open. As
ae pulled open the equipment shed door, he put a
danicky expression on his face and pretended to be
yut of breath.
“What happened?” Jared demanded anxiously
is Robin burst into the shed. “Did you tell the cops
t wasn’t us?”
Robin nodded. “Yeah,” he gasped. “I told
hem.” He paused for breath, enjoying their sus-
ense.
“AnJarded ?dema”nde d.
This is so much fun, Robin thought as he
rushish haeir doff his foreihn ae daramdati c
127

%
FEAR PARK :
gesture. He wished he could drag this out for a few
more minutes. But he had other things todo.
“Come on, Robin, tell us what happened!” Jared
cried. “What did they say? We're in the clear,
“I told them over and over. But they didn’t
believe me!” Robin announced. “They think you
did it. They’re coming after you and they’re not
~ going to give you a chance.”
“Huh? What do you mean?” Jared demanded.
“They’ve got instructions to shoot first,” Robin
told him. “They’re going to kill you all!”
128

cpeaPle,
22
1b ar ies hee mates
The other three guys looked ready to pass out,
too.
“This is a joke, right?” Jared demanded. “Come
on, Robin, you’re makai bnad gjok e. You have to
be!”
Robin shook his head. “Do I look like Pm
“But why didn’t the cops believe you?” Kevin
demanded.
“Who cares?” Joey’s voice was hoarse with fear.
“We don’t have time to stand around asking ques-
tions! You heard what he said—the cops are going
to shoot first!”
Jared turned to Robin. “Did they follow you?”
he asked in a tense voice. “Do they know we're
hidiin nhegre? ”
129

FEAR PARK
“T don’t think so,” Robin told him. “But I can’t
be sure.”
“We're sitting ducks in this shed. We have to
split—nJooewy !cri”ed .
“Keep your voices down!” Robin ordered. “And
use your brains. Running is the worst thing you can
do!”
Steve clenched his fists. “You got a better idea,
Fear?”
Robin nodded. “As a matter of fact, I do.”
Jared jammed his hands in his pockets. “Okay.
What?”
“The police don’t want to hear what you have to
say, right?” Robin asked. “Well, what if they don’t
have a choice? What if you arrange it so they have
to listen?”
“How are we supposed to make this arrange-
“Simple,” Robtolid nthe m. “Ytaoke ua h os-
“Are you kidding?” Steve cried. “If we grab
somebody, the cops will kill us for sure!”
“No they won't,” Robin said. “You’ve seen all
those hostage shows on TV, right? The police do
everything they can to keep people from being
hurt. Besides, all you’re asking them to do is listen
to your story.”
Jared frowned. “And you figure once we tell our
side of it, they'll let us go?”
130

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
“Sure. Because Pil back you up,” Robin lied.
“The TV and newspaper reporters will check
everything out, too. You'll be in the clear.”
Come on, Robin urged them silently. Go for it.
But Jared’s expression remained doubtful.
“What about taking the hostage? I mean, won’t we
be in troubie for that?”
“You’re not going to hurt anyone,” Robin ex-
plained. “And cops are human. They'll know you
did it because you were desperate to clear your
names. Besides, they'll still have the real bomber to
catch. Sey won’t have time to bother with you
anymore.”
- Robin paused and watched the four guys ex-
change glances. They didn’t look so panicky now.
They were actually starting to look hopeful.
“Of course,” he continued, “it’s important who
you take as a hostage.”
“Yeah. Who do we grab?” Kevin asked. “‘A little
kid?”
“That'll make everybody too angry,” Robin told
him. “I have a much better person in mind. Dier-
dre Bradley.”
“Hey, yeah!” Joey agreed. “Her dad will make
‘sure the cops listen to us!”
“T can get Dierdre here for you,” Robin told
them. “Once I get her into the shed, you pretend to
knock me out. I don’t want her to know Pm in on
131

FEAR PARK
this. Then-you grab her and hold her hostage. What
do you say?”
“Are you sure this will work?” Jared asked
nervously.
“It’s better than hiding out or running for the
rest of your life,” Robin replied. “Trust me. In a
few hours, you'll be totally free.”
Jared took a deep breath. “Okay. It’s worth a
‘shLeot’st do. it .”
“Good. You guys stay here while I get Dierdre.
And don’t worry,” Robin added. “Everything's
going to work out great.”
Robin eased the door open a crack and peered
outside. No one around. He glanced over his
shoulder, gave the guys a thumbs-up sign, and
slioput opf ethed she d.
Everything is going to work out great, he re-
peated happtoi hlimsyelf .
For me, that is.
The Bradleys will have another disaster on their
hands.
Then all I have to do is figure out a way to kill
Meghan, and life will be perfect!
First things first, though. Get Dierdre to that
shed and let the “tragic” hostage situation blowu p
in everybody’s faces.
Robin glanced up and down the path. Bradley's
office trailer stood several yards away. As Robin
132

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
watched, Jason Bradley trotted down the steps.
Bradley strode off. Dierdre waved to her father,
then moved back inside.
Perfect timing, Robin thought. She’s all alone.
And she complained that she hasn’t seen me
enough. Pll just drop in and suggest a little moon-
light stroll.
Robin glanced at the office. He could see Dier-
dre’s silhouette in the lighted window.
A moonlight stroll would be fun, actually. After
all, he enjoyed Dierdre. Hanging out with her,
holhdandis wnithg he r.
If he got rid of Megahnd aDienrdr e, he’d be
lonely.
Nobody to talk to. To kiss. Nobody to put her
arms around him and tell him how great he was.
Should I kill Dierdre? he wondered.
Maybe.
Maybe not.
Such a tough decision.
Chohoe tsolde hi,msel f.
Keep her?
Or kill her?
133

onoPlep,
23
6¢€
L was so creepy!”’ Dierdre declared,
as she and Rob left her father’s office. “This dry,
whispery voice saying these awful things. Warning
me about you!”
Robin put his arm around her shoulder. “And
you don’t have any idea who it was?” he asked.
“No. That was the worst part,” Dierdre replied.
“It didn’t sound like anyone I know.”
Dierdre leaned against Rob and shivered. She
kept trying to wipe the voice from her head, but it
kept repeaitts iwanrnigng . Telhelr tio sntayg aw ay
from Robin Fear.
She glanupc aet dRob . He stared straight ahead,
a concerned expression on his face.
Concerned for me, she thought.
He is my friend, no matter what that voice said.
More than a friend. Much more.
He always will be.
134

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
“Tm so glad you came by the office,” she told
ihim. “I couldn’t tell Daddy about the call. He has
enough on his mind. But I wanted to talk to
isomebody!”
“Mmm.” Robin squeezed her shoulder. “Maybe
it was just a prank call, you know? Anyway, a walk
will wipe the whole thing out of your mind. Except
it’s starting to rain.”
“Just a little drizzle.” Dierdre smiled and
wrapped her arm around his waist. “It’s kind of
nice and misty, actually. I don’t mind it.”
Robin kissed the top of her head. “Your hair is
already wet,” he murmured.
“T don’t care. I want to be with you.” She turned
her face up and gave him a long kiss.
The rain began to come down harder.
Dierdre laughed. “Looks as if we'll have to go
back after all.”
“Why don’t we just wait it out in there?” Robin
suggested. He pointed toward an equipment shed a
few yards up the path. “It'll be cozy and warm.” He
kissed her again. “And romantic,” he added.
Dierdre took his hand. “Let’s go.”
Breathless and spattered with raindrops, Dierdre
scooted into the shed in front of Robin. “It’s so
dark in here!” she cried. “There must be a flash-
light somewhere.”
_ The door slammed shut. Dierdre heard a scuf-
fling noise behind her. Then a loud gasp. —
135

FEAR PARK
eile
She spun around. “Rob!” she screamed.
Rob lay on the floor, his eyes closed.
“Rob? Rob?” she cried. He didn’t move.
Slowly, Dierdre raised her eyes from Rob’s face.
Jared Malone and his three friends stood against
the front wail of the shed.
Dierdre’s heart thundered in her chest. Their
faces! They were the same faces on the police
_ drawingosf the bombers! She’d seen them for days,
but it hadn’t hit her until now. Until she actually
saw them in person.
Jared. Paul’s brother. A killer.
“You're the ones!” she shouted. “You killed all
those people! You set that bomb!”
She glanced down at Rob. He was so still, so
pale. “You killed Robin, too!”
“Shut up!” Jared snarled. “Robin is okay! Every-
thing will be okay—yoiu fjus t shut up andl istent o
us!’
“No!”’ Dierdre screamed. She raced for the door.
“Get her!” Joey yelled. “Don’t let her out of
here!”
Strong hands grabbed Dierdre from behind and
dragged her away from the door.
“Nooo!” she wailed. She lashed out with her
foot, but kicked only air.
A hand clamped itself against her mouth. Dier-
dre pulled her lips back and sank her teeth into the
boy’s flesh.
136

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Hey elped.
Dierdre jabbed back with both elbows and heard
her attacker cry out. Twisting and turning, she
finally broke free.
I have to get out! she thought. She tossed her
tangled hair from her eyes and raced for the door
again. I have to get out of here! They’re killers.
Killers!
She reached for the door handle.
And pain explion dhere hdead .
Blinding, searing pain.
Dierdre’s stomach heaved.
Her knees crumpled.
The door handle seemed to be at the far end of a
black tunnel.
The tunnel grew narrower and narrower as the
darkness closed in.
They’ve killed me, too, Dierdre realized, as
everytwhenti nblagck .
137

coaPley
24
to ane Dierdre turned her head.
Pain hit her like a blow from a hammer.
She tried to cry out, but she couldn’t open her
Pm gagged!
She tried to reach for the gag. Something stopped
her. Her hands were behind her. She couldn’t move
them.
Her hands were tied!
Dierdre’s eyes snapped open. The pain washed
over her. She shut her eyes quickly, breathing hard
through her nose.
Slowly, the pain in her head faded to a dull thud.
A sharp pattering sound came from above.
Rain, Dierdre thought. It’s still raining. It started
when Rob andI...
138

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Rob!
She opened her eyes again and glanced around.
She was still in the equipment shed. Leaning
igainst the far wall, deep in the shadows of a tall
torage closet.
Rob lay on the floor next to her. His hands and
mklweere stie d.
He’s dead! Dierdre thought. Jared killed him!
She started to sob and almost choked on the gag.
Don’t be sick! Don’t be sick!
Swallowing hard, Dierdre let her eyes drift shut
gain.
The rain had let up. It sounsdofet dnow .
No. It wasn’t the rain. It was someone whis-
She opened her eyes a slit and peered through
er lashes down the dim length of the shed. Four
igures huddled together near the door, holding a
vhispered conversation. Jared. Kevin. Steve and
oey.
The whispers sounded fierce and frantic.
Finally, Dierdmarde eo ut some words: “. . . get
id of her!”
Her heart stopped, then began racing.
They’re talking about me! Theygoi’ngr toe ki ll
ne, too!
A cry of panic rose in her throat. She forced it
own.
139

=
FEAR PARK ~ .
Don’t moan or whimper! Donlet ’thetm s ee
you're awake!
Moving only her eyes, Dierdre glanced around.
A few feet to her left, she saw a dusty-paned
window. To her right, the storage closet. Its door
was open, partially blocking her from the view of
the killers.
Tools filled the closet and hung from hooks on
_ the inside of the door. Pliers. A spade. A coiled
hose.
And a pair of long-bladed hedge clippers. Sharp
and shiny.
Perfect for cutting.
Dierdre shifted her gaze to the other end of the
shed. Jared and his friends still huddled together,
whispering urgently.
She held her breath, then scooted an inch to her
right. Paused. Scooted another inch.
The whispering continued.
They haven’t seen me, she told herself. Keep
going!
Another inch. Another. Sweat beaded on her
forehead and rolled into her eyes. Keep going!
At last she felt the cold blades of the clippers
against her fingers. Silently, she tugged them from
the hook. She fumbled for the catch and pushed it
up.
The blades snapped open with a sharp, metallic
click.
140

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Dierdre froze. Incredibly, nothing happened. No
mgry shouts. No footsteps running toward her.
She wedged the clippers against the base of the
loset. Then she began to rub her bound wrists
gainst the edge of an open blade.
Back and forth. Back and forth. The rope gave a
ittle. Dierkepdt rrubebin g.
A strand broke. Then another and another.
faying rope. More strands broke. The rope
tretancd hlooesedned .
Loosened enough for her to slide her hands all
he way out.
She rubbed her arms, got the circulation going
gain. Then she rose quietly to her feet, and pulled
he gag from her mouth. She shoved her hair out of
er eyes and glanced worriedly at Rob.
His head moved slightly. His chest slowly rose
ndf ell.
Dierdre almost gasped out loud with joy. He’s
ot dead! They didn’t kill him!
We can both get out!
Keeping one eye on Jared and his friends, she
10ved silently to Rob’s side and began to untie the
ypes on his wrists.
Rob startto egrodan .
Dierdre covered his mouth.
His eyes opened.
Silently, Dierdre put a finger to her lips.
141

FEAR PARK — ;
Rob stared up at her for a moment, confused.
But finally, he nodded.
He understood.
As quickly as possible, Dierdre finished untying
him and helped him sit up. She pointed to the
window.
Rob nodded again. “Go!” he mouthed silently.
Dierdre gathered her courage. Shot a last quick
_ glance at Jared and his friends.
She stepped out from the shadow of the storage
closet.
And leapt for the window.
Could she get out before they saw her?
Could she get away?
“Hey!” Jared shouted.
142

cnaPle,
25
ee ee ea ere
Footsteps slapped against the gritty cement floor.
Dierdre tugged up, panting with fear.
She turned to see Rob beside her, helping her.
The window resisted for a second, then shot up
if it were greased.
Cool, moist air flowed onto Dierdre’s face.
And then Rob disappferoma rhere sdid e.
Rough hands grabbed her arms and yanked her
ckward.
“Nsohe !scr”eame d. “No!” She twisteadnd
cked, battering her feet against someone’s legs
id screaagmaiin. n“Ngo! ”
“Cut it out!” Jared growled in her ear. He
rapped a hand around her mouth and used his
her arm to wrestle her away from the open
ndow.
143

y
FEAR PARK $
Steve stepped up and slammed it shut.
Jared flung Dierdre away from him, across the
shed. The window was our only chance, she
thought, as she stumbled and fell onto the floor
nexto tRob .
Our last chance!
Beside her, Rob mumbled something. He must
have hit his head again! she thought.
“We have to get out of here!” Jared cried, turning
to his friends. “Now!”
Dierdre helped Rob to his feet. Standing close
together, they braced themselves against the wall.
All four guys turned and stared at them.
This is it, Dierdre thought. They’re going to kill
us!
She gulped in some air. The guys still stared at
her.
No. Not at her, she realized.
They were staring at the smoke.
Purple smoke, twisting and curling along the
floof tohe rshe d.
Risanid binllogwin g.
“Rob!” Dierdre cried. “What is it? What’s hap-
pening?”
Rob’s eyes were wide as he gazed at the smoke.
“It’s just like in the old story,” he murmured in a
terrified voice. “Remember? In 1935, when all the
kids came to clear the land for the park. The purple
144

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
moke appeared then, too.” He swallowed and
joshies edye s.
Dierdre stared in horror as the smoke continued
© rise and billow through the shed.
“And right after it did, the kids chopped each
ther up with their hatchets!” Rob continued.
Dierdre shuddered.
“Something horrible is going to happen, Dier-
ire!” Robin warned. “Something we can’t con-
rol!”
Dierdre shook as a cold wave of fear ran through
er. She stared in horror at the thick purple smoke,
naking around the shed.
Wrapping itself around Jared. Around his
fiends. Slithering along their arms and legs. Float-
ng arothueirn thdroat s.
“Nooo!” Jared moaned in a terrified voice. “Get
t off me! Nooo!”
His friends began to groan, too. All of them
rabbed at their faces, moaning and crying.
Their skin is stretching!
Tighter and tighter against their skulls! It’s going
) split apart!
Wiat louhd p op, the skin cracokn eJarded ’s
yrehead, revealing white, shiny bone.
“What’s happening?” Dierdre shrieked. “What
| happening?”
145

FEAR PARK
“They’re coming apart!” Rob cried. “The smoke
is pulltheim napagrt! ”
Joey’s cheejkuttbed ooutn lieke rsock s.
Kevin’s arms began to stretch from his side. He
bellowed im terror and pain—as they snapped
loose and fell to the floor.
Jared’s neck stretched higher and higher—until
his head brokoeff .
Dierdre screamed.
. The purple smoke grew thicker. Swirling. Twist-
ing around heads and arms and feet and legs.
Pop. Another boy broke apart.
His ribcage exploded and his arms and legs
Began to float toward Dierdre and Rob.
“It’s coming for us, now!” Rob cried. “It’s going
to rip us to pieces!”
Dierdre screamed as the smoke touched her. She
felt itsw armth. Felt it twine around her ankles and
creep up her bare legs.
Higher. Thicker.
Picking at the skin on her legs and arms.
Stretching it.
Pulling at it.
Creeping higher and higher.
Swirling completely around her.
146

on9Plep,
26
€€
ar Dierdre screamed. “Rob,
help me!”
No answer.
She could see nothing through the wall of purple
smoke.
It got him, too! He’s dead!
And I’m next!
Dierdre shut her eyes and pressed against the
rough wall of the shed.
No way out!
I'm going to die like the others. Pm goingto
stretch and stretch until I rip into pieces.
She waited for her skin to tighten.
To split open over her bones.
No way out!
The smoke brushed over her lips. Curled against
her eyelids.
147

FEAR PARK |
Pressed against her face, her arms, her handsh,e r
And then it drifted away from her.
I can’t feel it, Dierdre thought. I can’t feel a
Am I dead? Did it kill me?
Cautiously, she opened her eyes. And blinked in
surprise.
The smoke had vanished completely.
_ Dierdre jumped as a low moan echoed through
She shoved away from the wall and rushed to
him. “Roby—ou aalrl rieght ?”
Robin pushed himself to his knees and glanced
around. “I’m okay, I think,” he groaned. “But the
smothkoughet fo—r suIre.. .”
“It almost got us!” Dierdre helped him to his
feet, then wrapped her arms around him. “And
then it disappeared.”
In horrified silence, she gazed around the shed.
Body parts littered the dusty cement floor.
Chunofk sskin .
Legs and arms torn from. their sockets.
A skull that had exploded into a dozen jagged
pieces.
An eyeball, blue as a marble, perched atop one of
the skulls.
148

THE LOUDEST SCREAM
Jared’s eye.
Dierdre shuddered and held on to Rob. “My
father has to close the park!” she cried. “He has to,
RobHie hnas! to !”
“But, Dierdre—” Robin started to protest.
“I mean it!” Dierdre raised her head and stared
at him. “There is a curse on this land! I didn’t
believe it before, but I do now! I have to convince
my father to shut this park down for good!”
“Take it easy, Dierdre,” Robin told her. “Tl help
you convince him.”
“You will?”
“Of course.” He pulled her close again. “We'll do
it together. He’ll have to listen to both of us.”
Dierdre leaned her cheek against his shirt. “But
what if he doesn’t?” she asked. “What if we can’t
convince him? I-’'m so worried, Rob.”
She felt Rob’s arms tighten around her.
“Til help you, Dierdre,” Robin said softly.
“Then I’m going to take care of you. Real good care
of you.”
149

git aieP d
Mapna i ‘aaiamel Sra

onaPley,
| pieeerte ey
hard bench. She wrapped her arms around herself to
ry to stop her shivers. With the cheers of the crowd
buzzing in her ears, she stared down from the bleach-
Ts into the billopuwrplie nsmgoke .
The teenagers on the field below raised hatchets
ver their shoulders and swung at the black tree
itumps that dotted the ground. Soft music played, so
oft Dierdre could barely hear it over the noise of the
sudience.
The purple smoke floated over the hardworking
eenagers. It gave the scene an unreal quality. As the
eenagers chopped at the stumps, swung, and chopped
wain, they all seemed to be moving in a dream.
It is a dream, Dierdre realized.
Fm asleep. And 'm dreaming that 'm in the
lleachers, watching this show at Fear Park, at
Daddy’s park.
1

FEAR PARK
The Hatchet Show.
The reenactment of what really happened here sixty
years ago.
The crowd cheered as, on the field below, two of the
hatchet. And buried the blade deep in the other boy’s
chest.
The cheers of the audience turned to cries of horror
as all of the teenagers furiously began to swing their
hatcath onee atnotshe r.
Chopping off arms. Slicing through backs and
chests.
Hacking. Hacking at one another until the fake
pres alee SP neh ei E
moan.
The fake cries and wails of the teenage actors rose
up over the cheers and applause of the audience.
Bodies sprawied in the spreading pool of blood. The
music seemed to billow and swirl with the thick
snaof kpurpele ssmok e.
This really happened, Dierdre thought, her teeth
clenched, every muscle in her body tensed.
This really happened sixty years ago to teenagers
working to clear the land for Fear Park. Without
reason, they all went into a frenzy—dozofe tnhsem .
And they chopped one another to pieces.
2

THE LAST SCREAM
They all died. They all died on the spot where
Their veal blood soaked the ground where the
+ Eas ane enh:e ee nara
On the field below, the teenage actors swung and
shoawapy apt onee adnoth er. Diecrlosded rhere ey es
io shut out the ugly scene.
But she couldn’t get away from the cheers and
laughter of the excited andience.
Why do they enjoy this show so much? she won-
Jered. Why do they find it such a thrill to see kids
butconeh aenotrher ?
Why am I here watchinigt ?
Beca’'mu drseameing .
She opened her eyes. And gazed down at the scene
of horror.
“Huh?” Dierdre gasped as a dark-haired boy
stepped out from a thick swirl of purple smoke. She
sat high in the bleachers. But she recognized him at
nce.
Robin Fear. Her friend. Her closest friend.
More than her friend. Her boyfriend. Her protector.
“Robarie yonu do—ing twhereh? Geat awtay f rom
here!” she called to him.
Of course he couldn’t hear her. His dark eyes
canned the crowd, as if searching for her.
“Robin! Robin!” Dierdre screamed. “Robin—
leaGsete aw!ay! ”
He pula llonge-hadndl ed hatcouht eoft h is
houlder.
Behind him, two boys chopped at each other’s legs.
3

7
i:
FEAR PARK
They both collapsed to the ground—and on their
torn, bleeding knees continued chopping and hacking
at each other’s chests.
Wails of horror and pain rose up through the music,
through the clouds of purple smoke.
Robin turned to the frenzied teenagers. Dierdre
watched him hoist back his hatchet and prepare to
swing.
“No! No—pleasshee b!egg”ed .
Why is Robin doing that? Why is Robin on the
field? Why is Robin in the Hatchet Show?
“Please—RoGebti anwa!y! ”
And then she thought: Why am I screaming? This is
up.
She waited for that feeling of release, that rising
feeling when you feel yourself pulling up out of a
dream.
Wake up, Dierdre. Come on—wake up.
She blinked, expecting to find herself in her room.
Safine bed .
But the wails of pain continued, rising over the
cheers and applause of the crowd. The audience was
on its feet now, standing and clapping in rhythm with
the swings of the gleaming hatchets.
It’s a dream. Only a dream, Dierdre assured herself.
But no matter how hard she tried, she couldn’t pull
hersoeutl off i t.
She blinked hard. Shut her eyes, waited, then
opetnheme adgai n.
4

THE LAST SCREAM
Still there. All the horror, the blood, the pain—stilt

cnaPle,,
ite Chop. Chop.
The teenagers attacked one another like machines
now, in a deliberate, steady rhythm.
The ugly hacking sounds sent cold shudders down
Dierdre’s back. She shut her eyes again.
When she opened them, she sat in her room. At her
desk.
Wide awake.
Afternoon sunlight streamed in through the open
bedroom window. A soft breeze fluttered the white
curtains.
“Oh.” She swallowed hard. She struggled to catch
her breath. Her stomach churned. She still hugged
herself tightly.
“T wasn’t asleep,” she murmured out loud. Her eyes
focused on the bulletin board on the lemon-colored
wall above her desk. She searched for the date on the
6

THE LAST SCREAM
calendar posted there. She needed to find something
real. Something . . . ordinary.
She grabbed the red and blue Koosh ball she kept
on the desk beside her computer, and squeezedi t
tigihn tonel hyand .
It wasn’t a dream, she realized.
I was awake the whole time.
So whawats i t?
A vision, she decided. Some kind of vision—of the
future?
A peek at a horror to come?
Dierdre sighed. Fear Park had been struck by so
many horrors. So many peoplhea d died. Hideous
deaths. Unexplained deaths.
Before the park even opened, the manager of the
animal preserve had been mauled to death and eaten
by the lions he had gone to feed.
A bomb had exploded in the House of Mirrors,
sending sharp chunks of glass fiying, killing twelve
people.
Dierdre’s boyfriend Paul had somehow gotten
trapped beneath the Ferris wheel. The wheeble -
As Dierdre watched in shock and disbelief, Paul’s
brother, Jared, and three of his friends had their
bodies ripped apart by a mysterious force.
So many deaths. So much horror.
So much horror that Dierdre was beginning to
yelieve the rumors that a curse had been placed on
Fear Park. She never wanted to believe any of it. Even
eee ee
O ignore it.
7

FEAR PARK |
Why would anyone believe in ancient curses today?
Dierdre shook her head sadly. It was hard to know
what to believe.
The park had begun in horror. Why did those
teenagers helping to clear the land for the park in
1935 go wild and hack one another to death?
It had never been explained.
And now: Dierdre had seen some kind of vision. A
warning about the future. A warning that the frenzied
killing could take place once again.
Dad has to close the park forever, she told herself.
He has to forget his dream. He has to close the park
and walk away—before more innocent people die.
Before more blood darkens the ground where it was
built.
The park had been closed for a month while police
investigated the last deaths that occurred. And while
workers made a safety check on every part of the
park.
But Dierdre’s dad, Jason Bradley, was determined
to open again as soon as the city would allow.
He can’t, Dierdre decided. Fear Park should never
open its gates again.
Dierdre climbed unsteatdo hierl fyee t. She decided
to go downstairs and force her dad to listen to her. As
she made her way to the bedroom door, she felt shaky
and weak.
That vision exhausted me, she realized.
She held on tightly to the banister as she walked
down the stairs. “Dad? Hey, Dad?” .
Nor eply.
8

THE LAST SCREAM
room. Then peeked into his room.
“Dad?”
' Did he go out?
A muffled groan caught her attention.
The bathroom door swung open. Mr. Bradley
cream on his face. His eyes bulged wide with alarm,
and he uttered a hoarse choking sound.
“Dad!” Dierdre
“Unnnnnh!”
He grabbed his throat. His eyes bulged even wider.
“Dad—what’s wrong? Are you choking?” Dierdre
cried.
He nodded frantically. Then with another choked
groan he opened his mouth wide and jammed his
findogwn ehirs thsroa t.
“Unnonh. Unnnnnnh.”
- Dierdre froze. What should she do? “Dad—should
I call for help? Call 911?”
“Unnnnh.”
He struggled with his hand in his mouth. Probing
deep into his throat with his fingers.
“Aaaaagh!”
He let out a cry as he finally tugged his fingers out.
Dierdre screamed when she saw what he had pulled
frhios tmhroa t.
A long, fat brown worm wriggled between his
Dierdre gagged, sickened at the sight.
“Ohhbh.” Mr. Bradley uttered a weak moan.
“How—” Dierdre started to ask.
9

FEAR PARK
But she couldn’t finish her question. Her father
started to choke again.
He probed his fingers into this throat, his eyes
rolling wildly. Shaving cream smeared over his hands,
his trousers, the wall.
With a horrified gasp he pulled another long worm
from deep in his throat. He held it in front of his face,
watched it quiver between his fingers, then dropped it
to the floor.
Mr. Bradley’s chin trembled. His entire body
shook. He choked again.
“Daddy!” Dierdre shrieked.
She watched him pull an even longer worm from
his mouth. Then two more. Then two more.
He let the worms fall to the floor. Diersdawr tehe m
crawling over his bare feet.
“H-help!” Mr. Bradley finally managed to whisper.
But what could Dierdre do?
She watched as he pulled another fat, foot-long
worm off his tongue.
What is going on? she wondered. What is happen-
ing here?
10

SnaPle,
. Fear snickered to himself and
passed his hand once more over the steaming silver
bowl. Candlelight flickered across the floor of the
small library, casting darting shadows over the walls
of old books.
A pleased smile crossed Robin’s usually somber
face. This dark library was his favorite place. It had
been his father’s favorite place too. All of the ancient
books about sorcery, magic, and the dark arts had
belonged to his father.
They were Robin’s now. And he knew how to use
them.
He knew how to use magic to get what he wanted—
whatever he wanted.
He had used the powers of the old books to make
himself and Meghan Fairwood immortal. Robin and
Meghan were born in 1918. That meant they were
nearly eighty years old.
11

FEAR PARK
Eighty years old and still teenagers. For Robin had
frozen their ages at seventeen. That meant they would —
stay seventeen forever and never age a day.
He passed his hand once again over the bowi of
steaming black liquid. He chanted the ancient words
softto hlimsyelf .
Yes. The old books gave Robin power. The powert o
get whatever he wanted. The power to do whatever he
wanted.
Right now he was amusing himself by making
worms appear in Jason Bradley’s throat.
Simple. But funny.
One of the simplest spells of all. It helped Robin
relax.
He had a lot to be tense about. Because the ancient
maghie ckne w hadn't brought him what he wanted
most in the world.
He wanted to destroy Fear Park. He needed to
destroy Fear Park. To close it down and make sure it
stayed closed forever.
With a sigh, Robin thought back on the long and
tragic history of Fear Park. ...
In 1935 Nicholas Fear, Robin’s father, vowed that
the park would never go up. The Bradley family
wanted to build their amusement park in a section of —
the Fear Street Woods. NicFhearo wals deatersmin ed
to keep the land for the Fear family.
The town of Shadyside voted to allow the park to
be built. But Robin’s father swore to do everythinhge
coutol stodp i t.
Robin promised to help his father. After the land
had been cleared by the Bradleys, a group of teenagers
12

THE LAST SCREAM
' was hired to clear the tree stumps. Robin cast the spell
' that made the teenagers go wild and hack one another
to death.
After Nicholas Fear died, Robin continued the
' battle to keep the Bradleys from opening the park. But
fo tneceeorapind proved more stubborn than Robin
Sixty years later, Fear Park was ready to open its
| gates. Robin continued to plot and scheme. He got a
_ Job at the park running the Ferris wheel. He became
‘Close with Jason Bradley’s daughter, Dierdre. Robin
' made Dierdre fall in love with him. He convinced her
' that she could always confide in him, trust him.
Analdl t he while he plotted against Dierdre and her
father.
So far Robin had caused a lot of death and destruc-
' tion. But he had failePadrk —wasF abeouta tor op en
| again in a few days.
The Bradleys would triumph over the Fears after
all. Unless Robin acted quickly.
Lost in his unhappy thoughts, Robin swehips than d
over the steaming bowl, sending another fat brown
worm to Jason Bradley’s throat.
“Robin—there you are!” a voice called. “What are
you doing?”
Robin raised his eyes to see Meghan burst into the
‘library. Her long, wavy red hair swept behind her. She
glanced around the small room, her green eyes reflect-
ing the shimmering candlelight.
Robin held his hand over the steaming bowl. Across
town, Jason Bradley would start to choke on another
fat worm.
13

FEAR PARK
“Whaaret y ou doing?” Meghan asked again, stand- _
ing over him. He could smell the sweet orangy fra-_
grance of her perfume.
“It’s a protection spell,” Robin lied.
Meghan furrowed her brow. “Protection?”
Robin nodded. “The Bradleys are opening Fear
Park again tomorrow. I’ve been searcahndi sneargch -
ing through Fatheolrd ’bosok s. Lookfori an spegll to
protect them from any more tragedies. I think I may
have found one.”
Kneeling on the floor, he gazed up at her and
studied her face. Does she believe me? he asked
himself. Is she buying that story?
He couldn’t tell. She shut her eyes and let out a
long, weary sigh.
Robin climbed to his feet and moved to her.
“What’s wrong?” he demanded.
“I don’t know,” she replied, shaking her head. “I'm
just so tired.”
“Tired? Of what?”
“Of everything.” She sighed. She pusheda strando f
coppery hair off her forehead. “I’m tired of you
spending all of your time worrying about the Brad-
leys. P’'ve seen you with that Bradley girl, Robin, and
[—”?
“I explained that,” Robin interrupted. He put his
hands on the shoulders of her green sweater and held
her, as if to calm her.
“You know why I spend all my time worrying about
the Bradleys,” he said softly, peering into her eyes. —
“I—I feel so guilty. My father put a curse on them. —
14 q

THE LAST SCREAM
i\He puta curse on their park. And oe tried so hard to
lift the curse.”
He squeezed her shoulders, holding her in place. He
istared intently into her eyes as if hypnotizing her. She
ilowered her gaze to the rows of candles on the floor.
“So many innocent people have died because of my
father,” Robin said in a trembling voice. “I feel
iresponsible, Meghan. I feel that I have to do every-
ithing I can to make sure that more innocent people
\don’t die in Fear Park.”
Is she buying it? he wondered. She has believed my
lies for sixty years. Is she buying them now?
She sighed again. “I guess I’m just tired of every-
thing,” she whispered. “I’m tired of being immortal.
Tired of being seventeen for my whole life.”
She raised pleading eyes to him. “I don’t want to
stay like this, Robin. I know what you’re doing is
good. I know how much it means to you. But I don’t
want to stay here in this young body. I want to grow
old. I don’t want to live in a time we don’t belong in.”
I'm tired too, Robin thought bitterly.
Tired of listening to Meghan complain. I made her
immortal. I brought her with me because I loved her,
because I cared about her so much. Because I needed
to have her with me.
But she has never been happy. She has complained
the whole time. And she has become more and more
bitter as the years have passed.
Robin stood holding on to her shoulders, staring
into her green eyes. I cared about her so much, he
thought. I needed her so much.
15

FEAR PARK $
But I don’t need her now.
And I don’t even like her that much.
She’s tired of being seventeen. And I’m tired of her.
“Do you understand what [m telling you?”
Meghan asked. “Do you understand why I can’t go on
like this?”
“Yes,” he replied softly. “Yes. And I will help you,
Meghan.”
Slowly he slid his hands off her shoulders and
wrapped them around her throat.
_ Then, still staring deep into her eyes, he began to
squeeze.
16

cnaPle,,
O; course, she is immortal, Robin re-
minded himself. I cannot strangle her. She cannot die.
He loosened his grip on her throat.
Meghan smiled at him.
She thinks I was being tender, he realizSehed .ha s
no idea of what I really intendedto do.
He leaned forward and kissed her forehead, a quick
peck.
“Do you really mean it?” Meghan asked, pressing
her forehead against his shoulder.
He nodded. “When I’m sure the park is safe,” he
told her. “When I’m sure the Bradleys are safe from
my father’s curse, I will find a spell. I promise. I will
find a way for you and me to grow old together.”
“Oh, thank you, Robin!” she cried. She threw her
arms around him and kissed him gratefully.
The kiss tasted sour on Robin’s lips.
Maybe there is a spell that will rid me of her, he
17

FEAR PARK
thought. I'll be much happier without Meghan —
around.
At least she still believes me, still trusts me, he
thought, returning her kiss.
But I no longer need her. I'll find a way to kill her—
after I destroy Fear Park forever.
Dierdre Bradley’s skin prickled. She used a
wadded-up tissue to mop sweat from her forehead.
_ It was a cool, clear evening. But the trailer that
served as Jason Bradley’s office radiated with heat.
Dierdre groaned and rotied her eyes. “Daddy, what
is your problem? It’s a beautiful night. Why do you
have all the windows closed?”
Without waiting for an answer, she crossed the
narrow trailer and slid up one of the square windows.
“I don’t know,” her father murmured. “I guess I
feel safer with them closed.”
“You've got to breathe,” Dierdre scolded.
“Don’t know if Pll ever feel safe again,” Mr.
Bradley whispered, lowering his eyes.
The ugly, fat worms must have damaged his vocal
cords, Dierdre realized. He can’t speak louder than a
whisper. She had urged him to go see Dr. Kleinsmith
at Shadyside General immediately. But he stubbornly
refused. He didn’t like doctors.
Besides, Dierdre believed he was embarrassed.
How could he ever explain to a doctor that he had
pulled out nearly a dozen foot-long worms from his
mouth?
Dierdre shuddered and tried to force the slimy
brown creatures out of her mind.
18
-a the

THE LAST SCREAM
That was yesterday.
This was a new day. A Friday night. The grand
| teopeofn Fieanr Pgar k.
As the sun lowered behind the trees, people started
| to arrive. By dark the park was crowded.
Cheerful voices and children’s laughter floated into
| the trailer office through the open window. Dierdre
| gazed at her father. He didn’t seem to hear the voices.
| He seemed to be off in another world, a world of his
own unhappy thoughts.
She stepped up behind his chair and rested her
‘hands on his shoulders. He had always been a big,
powemranf. Buearllik e. But he seemed smallert o
Dierdre now. Weaker. As if all the problems and
tragheadd shirunek shi m.
“Dadyou— okaay?” rshee ask ed.
He didn’t reply.
I really can’t bear to see him like this, Dierdre
thought unhappily.
“The gates opened an hour ago,” she told him.
“And the park is already crowded.” She squeezed his
shoulders. “Doesn’t that make you feel good?”
“Not really,” he murmured in his hoarse, strained
voice.
He swiveled his chair around to face her. He stared
up at her with red-rimmed eyes. “I’ve been thinking a
lot about our discussion last night,” he whispered.
“DaPm dsor,ry— ”
Dierdre and her father had talked long into the
night. She begged and argued and pleaded for her dad
not to reopFeaer Pnar k.
Now Dierdre felt guilty about some of the things
19

she had said. Her words had obviously hurt her
father.
And her pleading had been in vain. Jason had
completely refused to listen to her. There was no way
he would even think about keeping the park closed.
She had ended up screaming at him and storming
out of the room. She felt childish and guilty even
though she strongly believed she was right.
The park was cursed. Why coulhedr nfat’hert s ee
that?
Why did he have to be so stubborn? Hadn’t enough
innocent people died?
“Do you want to be responsible for even more
deaths?” she had shrieked at him the night before.
Jason Bradley’s face turned beet red.
Dierdre knew she had gone too far.
But why wouldhen l’istten ?
Now he stared up at her from his wooden desk
chair, his face lined, his eyes so red and tired. “I owe
you more of an explanation,” he said softly. His eyes
watered, and he lowered his gaze to the floor.
“Daddy, we said it all last night.” Dierdre sighed,
turtno tihe nwingdow .
“No,” he protested. “We didn’t say it all. At least, I
didn’t.”
A heavy silence hung inside the stuffy trailer.
Dierdre crossed her arms in front of her. A wisp of her
dark brown hair fell over one eye. But she didn’t
move to brush it away.
Bouncy calliope music from the carousel floated in
through the window. Dierdre could hear the rattle of
rifle fire from the shooting gallery across the midway.
20
ae

THE LAST SCREAM
“There is a lot you don’t know, Dierdre,M”r
[Bradley said finally. He cleared his throat painfully,
zand gently rubbed his neck. “There is a lot I haven’t
itold you.”
Dierdre lowered herself to the edge of the desk. Her
legs suddenly felt weak. Her heart thudded.
What was he about to say?
“Sure, this park is my dream,” Mr. Bradley contin-
ued. “It was my father’s dream. And his father’s
dream. And I made it my goal in life. That’s one
treason Pve been so stubborn about keeping the park
“I know, Daddy,” Dierdre replied. “We've already
said—”
“But that isn’t the only reason,” Jason Bradley
conti“Ynou useee, dI—.I— ”
He hesitated. Rubbed his stubbly jaw. “This is hard
for me, Dierdre. But I might as well just get it out.”
He narrhios ewyese adt h er. “You see, Pve put
every penny into this park. Every penny. If the park
goes under, we don’t have enough money to buy a hot
dog.”
Dierdre gasped. Her mouth dropped open. The
walls of the small trailer appeared to close in on her.
“But what about the savings account, Dad? All the
money Mom left you when she died?”
Mr. Bradley avoided Dierdre’s gaze. “I . . . I sank it
into the park,” he said so low she could barely hear
him. “I cleared out the bank account and invested it
in the park. That money hasn’t been there for at least
two years.”
Dierdre swallowed hard. “We’re really broke?”
21

FEAR PARK —
Mr. Bradley nodded. He shut his eyes. “We’re
worse than broke. I had to take out some personal
loans to keep us going. Several loans, 'm afraid. The
investors refused to put in any more money. They
said the park was doomed. They wanted me to buy
them out. I—I—” He gazed up guiltily at Dierdre.
“So you put in our own money,” Dierdre said
grimly.
“And borrowed more.” A sob escaped Mr. Bradley.
He covered his mouth, pretending it was a hiccup.
The tat-tat-tat-tat of rifle shot from the arcade
drummed in Dierdre’s ears. She gritted her teeth,
trying to shut out the noise, trying to concentrate on
her father’s startling words.
She realized she had been holding her breath. She
let it out in a loud whoosh.
“TI haven't told you the worst part,” Jason Bradley
murmured, his eyes glistening. He ran a hand heavily
back over his bushy hair. Then he cleared his aching
throat again. .
“There’s more?” Dierdre asked weakly.
“Your college account,” Mr. Bradley whispered.
“Oh, no!” Dierdre blurted out. “You didn’t! The
money Mom left me for college?”
With a groan Mr. Bradley climbed to his feet. He
crossed the small trailer and hugged Dierdre. “I’m
sorry. Really, Dee. I’m so sorry.”
“All of it?” Dierdre choked out.
“I’m afraid so,” her father replied, holding on tc
her. “I’m afraid so. All of it. All of your money. I hac
no choice. I had to use it for the park.”
22

THE LAST SCREAM
“So we really don’t have any money to live on?”
Dierdre asked. “No money at all?”
Mr. Bradley let go of Dierdre and stepped to the
trailer door. “No. No money,” he whisper“eUndle.s s
Fear Park is a success.”
Dierdre swallowed again. Her hands suddenly felt
ce cold. She tucked them into her jeans pockets.
She took a deep breath. “Then we have no choice,”
he said, forcing herself to sound hopeful. “We have
© make Fear Park a big success.”
Dierdre forced a smile. This smile, she thought, is
he bravest thing ’ve ever done.
“We've got to make Fear Park the biggest and most
yopular amusement park in the world!” she deciared,
truggling to sound cheerful, struggling to sound as if
he meantit .
“Yes,” Mr. Bradley agreed in a whisper. “Yes. Yes.
ind we have to make sure that nothing else goes
yrong. Nothing. No more deaths. No more acci-
lents.”
“Everything will go right from now on!” Dierdre
roci“aI kniow mit ewildl, .Dadd y. I knoit wwill .”
They both jumped when they heard the sound.
A gitl’s cry outside the trailer.
A high, shrill scream of horror.
23

cnaPle,
Disa lurched to the trailer window.
She leaned over and stuck her head out.
She squinted into the bright lights of the front
walkway—and saw Robin Fear. He was walking
quickly, crossing in front of a group of little kids,
heading toward the trailer.
Another shrill scream made Dierdre turn her head
to the right. She glimpsed two teenage boys carrying a
girl on their shoulders, She was screaming and pre-
tending to struggle as they threatened to toss her in
the big fountain.
They lowered her toward the high spray of colored
water. And she screamed again.
“What is it, Dee? What’s wrong?” Mr. Bradley
called from behind her, his thin voice quaking with
alarm.
Dierdre pulled her head back into the trailer and
24

THE LAST SCREAM
urned to him. “No problem. Just some kids having
fun. Messing around.”
“I thought—” Mr. Bradley started to say. His face
was bright red. His chest heaved up and down be-
neath his Hawaispoirta shnir t.
“It’s okay. Really, Daddy,” Dierdre assured him.
“Two boys are teasing a girl. She—”
Dierdre stopped as the trailer door swung open. She
turned to the front as Robin leaned in.
“Hi. Aren’t you working tonight?” she greeted him.
“Yes. My shift at the Ferris wheel starts in ten
minutes,” Robin replied, glancing at his watch. “I just
wanted to stop by and see how it was going. You
now. Wish you good luck.”
“That’s very nice of you, Rob,” Mr. Bradley said.
“Everything is fine,” Dierdre told him. “Daddy and
| were just talking about the park. We’re going to
make it the most popular amusement park in the
world!”
“Really?” Robin stared at Dierdre, then at her
ather. He had been smiling. But the smile faded
yuickly.
Dierdre could see how much her words had sur-
ised Robin. A few days before, she had promised
<obin that she woutallk tdo h er father. She promised
he would convheri fatnherc toe cl ose the park—and
cep it closed.
“We don’t want any more innocent lives lost,”
tobin had said.
And Dierdre agreed.
But now, here she was, forcing herself to sound
25

FEAR PARK
cheerful. Bragging about how wonderful and success-
ful the park was going to be.
Robin is definitely confused, Dierdre saw. That’s
because he doesn’t know the whole story. He doesn’t
know what terrible trouble Dad and I will be in if the
park fails.
“fll explain everything to Robin later, she decided.
She knew he’d understand. He was the kindest, most
understanding boy she’d ever met.
“Well, good luck!” Robin declared. He raised two
fingers to his forehead and gave Dierdre a quick
salute. “Meet me later? My shift is over at ten.”
“Okay. See you later,” Dierdre agreed.
The trailer door closed behind him. Dierdre moved
to the window and watched Robin make his way
through the crowtod th e Ferris wheel.
A sharp cry made Dierdre turn her attention to a
little red-haired girl chasing a red balloon across the
pathway. A long string trailed beneath the balloon.
But the wind was carrying the balloon up, just out of
the girl’s reach.
The little girl cried out as she tripped and went
sprawling facedown on the pavement. She remained
on the ground for a few moments, arms and legs
twisted—which made Dierdre’s heart stop.
But by the time the parents came running over, the
girl was back on her feet, rubbing her knee and
pointing to the escaped balloon.
Dierdre breathed a long sigh of relief. “I hope a
skinned knee is the worst thing that happens tonight,”
she murmured.
“What?” her father called.
26

THE LAST SCREAM
She turned to find him seated at the small, cluttered
desk. His face was lowered over a stack of papers,
which he shuffled through quickly.
“Nothing,” Dierdre told him. “Just talking to my-
self.”
The phone rang. Mr. Bradley reached for it, but
Dierdre picked it up first. “Hello?”
“You don’t know Robin,” a voice rasped.
“Excuse me?” Dierdre cried. She pulled the receiv-
er from her ear and stared at it as if there were
something wrong with it.
“You don’t know the truth about Robin,” the voice
whispered. “You'd better find out about him. Before
it’s too late.”
“Who is this?” Dierdre demanded angrily. “Why
do you keep calling me? Why are you doing this?” —
aed

cnaPle,
|R ives kicked a soda can across the
path. It bounced off the sneaker of a boy up ahead.
The boy didn’t seem to notice.
Scowling, leaning into the gusting wind, Robin had
his fists stuffed into his jeans pockets. To keep himself
from punching someone. Anyone.
He pictured himself landing a sharp punch on
Dierdre’s jaw. Pictured her shocked expression as she
sank to the ground, her pretty face swelling. Ruined.
Her teeth scattaet hrere fdee t.
Control your anger, he warned himself.
It wasn’t easy. He hadn’t felt this angry in a lot of
years.
But why shouldn’t I be angry at Dierdre? he asked
himself. She betrayed me. She’s a liar. And a traitor.
Robin had worked so hard to convince Dierdre that
Fear Park should never reopen. She had promisedto
force her father to give up the park.
28

THE LAST SCREAM
But now here she was, bragging about how Fear
Park was going to be such a big success.
How many people do I have to kill to convince
Dierdre that the park has to close? Robin thought
bitterly.
He answered his own question: just one.
Robin had been planning to kill Dierdre. He figured
that losing his daughter might convince Jason Bradley
that the park was cursed. Might convince the man to
pack up and go away.
But Bradley is so stubborn, Robin decided. He’s so
stubborn that even losing Dierdre might not force
him to close the park.
That left Robin no choice. He had to kill Jason
Bradley.
I should have done it long ago, Robin scolded
himself. Why didn’t I think of it first?
Fear Park is Jason Bradley’s dream. And it is a
dream that will die with him.
I guess I wanted to make Mr. Bradley suffer first,
Robin decided as he stepped up to the control panel
to the Ferris wheel. I wanted Dierdre’s dad to see all
the tragedy his park caused, all the lives lost.
But I can’t wait any longer.
Besides, poor Mr. Bradley has suffered enough. It’s
time to put him out of his misery.
Robin wavtoe Rodnni e Scott, Ferris wheel operator
for the early shift. Ronnie grinned and stuck his green
bubble gum through his teeth.
Robin had a strong urge to knock the gum down
Ronnie’s throat. Instead, he murmured, “How’s it
going?”
29

FEAR PARK
He didn’t listen to Ronnie’s answer. He was think-
ing about Jason Bradley. Watching the Ferris wheel
spin. And thinking about Jason Bradley.
“See ya,” he heard Ronnie say. The lanky young
man strode away, brushing his short blond hair back
with both hands.
Robin reached for the lever that controlled the
wheel. The ride was full, he saw. The little cars rolled
down, then, with a gentle tilt, swung back up again, all
of them filled.
Robin watched for a long while. Thinking hard.
He saw two teenage boys riding with their hands
straight up in the air, as if they were on a wild roller-
coaster ride. A car with two girls passed by. The girls
were leaning forward, making the car rock.
A whitceoupl-e shharead tihe nrext ecard. T hey
held hands and had their heads tilted back in laugh-
ter. In the next car, a boy and girl were kissing, their
arms wrapped around each other.
Cute, Robin thought bitterly. Real cute.
Seeing people have a good time filled him with
He knew it was time to unload passengers. And
load new passengers on. The line of people waiting for
the Ferris wheel stretched out onto the pathway.
Some people were starting to appear impatient.
But Robin wasn’t ready to stop the wheel. He had a
better idea.
He grabbed the heavy steel lever. And, snickering to
himself, he shoved it forward—tahel wlay .
The big wheel hesitated at first. Then Robin heard
30

THE LAST SCREAM
some of the passengers squeal as it jerked them
harqduick—ly paickend upd spe ed.
The cars all rocked and tilted as the wheel began to
spin faster. The lights on the wheel frame blended
into a single circle of light.
Faster
Squtuerneda tol scsream s.
From down on the ground Robin heard gasps of
shock. The people waiting in line began to point and
cry out in surprise.
Faster.
The white-haired couple were no longer holding
hands. Their hands were gripped tightly around the
safety bar as their car swung and lurched. The two
boys continued riding with their hands up in the air.
The boys whooped loudly, laughing, enjoytihen wgil d
ride.
The two girls who had been leaning forward .. .
- Robin couldsnee’ wtha t the two girls were doing.
The big wheel was whirling too fast now to see any of
the passengers clearly. They had all become a blur of
color. A rippling wash of wide eyes and frightened
faces.
The screams and squeals rose over the loud clack of
the Ferris wheel, over the alarmed cries of everyone
watching from the ground.
Robin leaned into the heavy steel lever, as if trying
to push it even farther.
“Stop it! Stop it!” someone screamed from nearby.
“My little girl is up there!”
“Oh, no! Noooooo!”
“Somebody—do something!”
31

FEAR PARK
Robin couldn’t help it. He tossed back his head and
laughed.
But he cut the laugh short when he saw two Fear
Park security guards shoving their way through the
crowd, running toward him. “What’s wrong?” one of
them called breathlessly.
“Stop that thing!” his partner demanded.
“I—I can’t!” Robin cried, forcing fear to his face,
making his hands tremble on the lever. “It’s stuck!”
~“Huh?” Both guards uttered startled cries.
“The lever is stuck!” Robin told them. “I can’t
budge it!”
A loud shriek from the whirring wheel made Robin
and the two guards turn. A large glob of green
appeared to fly off the wheel. It flew through the air
and splattered over the crowd of onlookers.
Cries of disgust rose up over the shrill shrieks of the
spinning passengers. Another glob of green came
flying from the wheel and splattered onto a man’s
head and shoulders.
It took Robin a few seconds to realize what the
green globs were. One of the Ferris wheel passengers
was vomiting.
“Do something!”
“Stop it! Can’t somebody stop it?”
The cries sounded more shrill, more panicky.
“Let me try to pull the lever back,” one of the
security guards demanded, starting to push Robin out
of the way.
“No!” Robin protested. “Go get Mr. Bradley. He'll
know what to do.”
32

THE LAST SCREAM
The two guards hesitated.
“Go get Mr. Bradley!” Robin screamed. “Hurry!”
They turned and ran, their brown and gold uniform
jackets flying behind them.
Robin watched them push through the horrified
crowd. Then he turned back to enjoy the whirring
Ferris wheel.
It had grown quieter on the wheel, he noticed.
Fewer passengers were screaming.
Did they realize that it didn’t help them to scream?
Or had some of them passed out?
The wheel whipped around too rapidly for Robin to
see. He could make out the blurred forms of people
being tossed back and forth inside the cars.
The gears of the big wheel made a deafening
grinding sound. A roar of metal against metal. The
cars squeaked and squealed as they rocked up, then
down.
“What is the problem?”
Robin spun around to see Mr. Bradley trotting
toward him, flanked by the two security guards. His
face was red, and his mouth hung open in a broad O
of horror.
“Robin—stop that thing!”
“I can’t!” Robin insisted. He pretended to tug on
the lever.
“My son is on that thing!” a woman screamed.
“Why aren’t you stopping it?” another woman
cried angrily. Others jammed forward, shouting and
furiously asking questions.
The two guards forced the crowd away, trying to
calm them.
33

FEAR PARK taclale
Here’s my chance, Robin decided.
Mr. Bradley stepped up to the lever. “Move over,
Rob. Let me try it,” he said, reaching for it.
Robin stepinp tehe dwa y. “No. You can’the, s”ai d
softly.
“Huh?” Mr. Bradley’s features twisted in bewilder-
ment. “Move aside,” he ordered sharply. “Let me try
it.”
“You can’t,” Robin repeated firmly.
“Why not?” Mr. Bradley demanded.
“Because you're dead,” Robin told him.
34

cnePle,
M. Bradley stared at Robin in total
onfusion.
Robin tried to force it back—but a grin spread
quickly over his mouth.
“What did you say?” Mr. Bradley demanded.
“You’re dead,” Robin repeated calmly.
Mr. Bradley let out an angry growl. He grabbed for
he lever. “Give me that!”
Robin let go of the lever. He lowered his shoulder—
ind rammed hard into Mr. Bradley’s chest.
“Unh!” Mr. Bradley uttered a startled grunt. He
taggered back, off balance.
Robin drove another shoulder block into Jason
jradley’s midsection.
The big man let out a startled moan as he toppled
ackward.
Into the whirring, squealing wheel.
35

FEAR PARK ml
A metal car swung up—and caught Mr. Bradley or
the back of the head.
The sound of the crack was so loud, it drowned ou!
the stagraspts lalle ardoun d.
The metal footrest of the car caught the back of Mr
Bradley’s skull and lifted him off the ground. Then, a:
the car swung higher, he dropped off, crumpling in ¢
broken heap on the pavement.
A puddle of bright blood spread under his head.
His eyes were opened wide, staring up blankly a
Robin, One leg was twisted at an impossible andl
benheis abrotad hbod y.
He didn’t move.
Cries and shrieks made Robin cover his ears. Hi
forced the grin off his face.
“Mr. Bradley,” he said out loud, “you're history.’
And so is Fear Park, Robin thought happily.
“Daddy! Daddy!”
The shrill cry interrupted Robin’s happy thoughts
He turned to see Dierdre, her face twisted i
horror. She dropped onto her knees beside her fathers
“Daddy! Daddy!”
A sob escaped her throat. She turned to Robin
“What happened?”
“The lever is jammed,” Robin replied, kneelin
beside her. “I couldn’t movit.e Yo ur dad—he triedt
help me. But he slipped. He—he hit his head.”
“Oh, no. Nooooo00000,” Dierdre wailed, raisin
her hands to her cheeks. “Noooooo.”
“T tried to catch him,” Robin said. “But he slippe
out of my hands. A car swung up and—”
36

THE LAST SCREAM
“We need an ambulance!” Dierdre shrieked, jump-
ng to her feet. “Somebodyan— acmbaulalncle. ”
“Dierdre—” Robin started to say. But she didn’t
acar him.
“Til do it myself!” She took off, hurtling through
he crowd toward the office trailer.
Robin turned his gaze to her father. Mr. Bradley
sroaned and blinhkise eydes .
“No!” Robin gasped. He’s alive. He’s still alive.
No. That can’tbe . No. No way. No way.
Robin dropped to his knees, wrapped his hands
round Jason Bradley’s throat, ands tarted to strangle
1im.
37

SnePley,
8
Basis glanced up—and realized toc
many people were watching. A tight circle of onlook:
ers stared down at him, murmuring to one another
shaking their heads, faces pale with alarm.
He hesitated.
I can’t let him live. I can’t.
But what can I do?
Before he could decide, Robin heard a familia
voice calling his name. A second later Megha
dropped down beside him.
She gasped in horror. “Robin—what are yo
doing?”
“Meghan—what are you doing here?” he de
manded.
She ignored his question, gaping at him in wide
eyed confusion.
Robin gazed down at his hands, still wrappe
around Mr. Bradley’s throat.
38

THE LAST SCREAM
“I—uh—Im trying to revive him,” he told
Meghan.
Mr. Bradley’s eyes were shut now. His breaths came
mn sharp wheezes. His hair was matted in dark blood.
Robin removed his hands from the man’s throat.
de turned to Meghan. “It’s Mr. Bradley,” he ex-
jlained. “He had a bad accident. But he’s still alive. I
hought if I could get him to open his eyes...”
“Robin—you’d better leave him be,” Meghan
warned. She put a hand on Robin’s arm and tried to
ug him away.
Robin heard the high wail of a siren in the distance.
The ambulance is on the way, he realized.
Please have a fiat tire! he said silently to himself.
Please give Mr. Bradley a chance to die.
Jason Bradley’s chest rose and fell with each wheez-
ng breath.
Robin allowed Meghan to pull him to the side.
“You're just too good,” she whispered in his ear.
“What?”
“You think you can save everyone,” Meghan said,
1olding on to his arm, pressing her cheek against his.
The orangy smell of her perfume disgusted him.
I used to love her, he thought. Now I have no feeling
t all for her.
What is she saying?
“You're not a doctor,” Meghan continued heatedly.
‘You think you can save the Bradleys. You think you
an save everyone. You've worked soh ard all these
ears trying to protect them.”
She stared into Robin’s eyes. “But you can’t do
39

FEAR PARK
everything, Robin. You can’t save the world. You’re
just too good. Too good.” She kishsise chdeek .
A smile broke over Robin’s face. He turnaweayd s 0
that Meghan couldn’t see it.
Yes. That’s my problem, he thought bistedly. rm
just too good.
I’ve been with Meghan for over sixty years. And I
never realized till this moment just how stupid she is!
Robin pulled Meghan aside as white-uniformed
medics swarmed toward the Ferris wheel. One of
them managed to stop the wheel. Two ambulances
made their way slowly through the crowd. “Ifhe dies,
do you think the park will close?” Meghan asked.
“Probably,” Robin replied. He saw Dierdre on het
knees beside the medics. Her brown hair had fallen
over her tearstained face. Her whole body trembled as
she watched the medics work.
A few minutes later he saw Dierdre climb into the
back of the ambulance, followed by the stretcher:
carrying Mr. Bradley.
He suddenly felt weary. Weary and disappointed.
What if Mr. Bradley lives?
What then?
“Let’s go home,” he told Meghan. “They founc
someone to unload the passengers. And no one i
going to want to ride the Ferris wheel now. They
won’t need me any more tonight.”
“Don’t worry, Robin,” Meghan said softly. Hold.
ing his arm, she followed him toward the front gate
“The medics got here so quickly. I’m sure Mr. Brad.
ley will be okay.”
“I hope so,” Robin murmured.
40

THE LAST SCREAM
I should have strangled him while I had the chance,
ne told himself bitterly.
Meghan suddenly stopped. Her fingers dug into
Robin’s arm. “Who is that boy?” she whispered.
“Huh?” Robin turned to follow Meghan’s gaze.
“What boy?”
“That red-haired boy,” she replied. “The tall, skin-
ay one in the long, black T-shirt and baggy shorts.”
Robin’s eyes focused on the boy Meghan described.
The red-haired boy quickly turned away.
“He was stariatn ugs, ” Meghan reported.
“He was?” Robin studied the boy. He was tall and
anky. He looked a little like a stick figure, especially
n the huge, baggy shorts. His red hair fell to his
jhoulders. He carried a bag of popcorn in one hand.
He glanced back at Robin. Seeing that Robin was
taring at him, the boy instantly turned away again.
“He. was staring at you as if he knew you,” Meghan
aid.
“ve never seen him before,” Robin replied. He
yulled Meghan to the gate. “Let’s get out of here.”
“You don’t know the truth about Robin Fear,” the
fice rasped into Dierdre’s ear.
“Please—” Dierdre begged, gripping the phone so
ightly her hand ached. “Leave me alone. Stop calling
ne. I—”
‘I’m coming to see you,” the voice threatened. “I’m
oming to tell you about Robin.”
“No! Please!” Dierdre begged.
The line went dead.
Pve got to get to the hospital, she thought, her heart
41

ee
FEAR PARK
pounding. The whispered voice still rasped in her ear,
repeating its ugly threat.
“I'm coming to see you .
I don’t have time for this, Dierdre thought, slam-
ming down the office phone. I’ve got to go see Daddy.
Maybe today will be the day he wakes up.
The past few days had been so difficult for Dierdre.
Staying hour after hour at the hospital. Talking to the
doctors.
~ Sitting by her father’besd . Staatr thie tnubegs a nd
wires hooked up to his body. Waiting. Prayifonr ghi m
to open his eyes. To wake up.
Listening to his every breath. Wondering if he’d
ever sit up. Ever smile. Wondering if she’d ever talk to
him again.
So many hours at the hospital. So many tense,
unhappy hours.
And afterward, Dierdre hurried to the park. She
had so much to learn about running Fear Park. So
much to learn and no time to learn it in.
The Ferris wheel was still closed down. But the rest
of the park was operating normally. And crowds came
every night.
Some people came to relax and have fun. Others
came to view the scenes of horror.
I should start a Fear Park horror tour, Dierdre
thought bitterly. The tour could start at the lion’s area
of the animal preserve. I could point out the spot
where the preserve manager was torn apart and eaten
by the lions.
Then we could move to where a bomb exploded in
42

THE LAST SCREAM >
the House of Mirrors. The flying shards of cut glass
killed twelve people. That’s a good stop on the tour.
And then we could end up at the Ferris wheel. I
sould show my customers where Daddy... where
A sob burst from Dierdre’s throat.
Such sick thoughts. She shook her head hard, as if
trying to shake them from her mind.
She climbed up from her father’s desk. Shoved in
the desk chair. Stepped out of the trailer—and
bumped into Robin Fear.
“Dierdre—hi. I was coming to see you.”
His dark hair fell over his forehead. His dark,
serious eyes stared into hers. He wore an oversize
black Polo shirt over baggy chinos.
“Robin, I can’t talk. ’'m on my way to the hos-
pital.”
Robin placed a hand on her shoulder. “I just
wondered how your dad is doing.”
“I—I don’t know,” Dierdre stammered. She felt
ears well up in her eyes. But she forced them back.
“‘He’s still in a coma, Robin.”
The words didn’t sound real to Dierdre. Was she
eally saying those words about her dad? Her big,
trong bear of a dad?
Still in a coma.
“Well, what do the doctors say?” Robin asked, his
yes burning into hers.
Dierdre shrugged. “They don’t know anything.
They say he could wake up at any time and be fine. Or
naybe never wake up. They—they ...” She swal-
owed hard. It was so difficult to talk about it.
43

FEAR PARK
Robin shook his head sadly, lowering his gaze to the
ground. “I’m so sorry. I feel so guilty, Dierdre. I tried
to catch him as he fell. But I wasn’t fast enough. i
really feel responsible.”
He’s:a0 aweet:-Dienkre thought S0-secaanil
caring and sweet.
“Robin—you can’t blame yourself,” she told him.
You can’t. You did everything you could.”
“And now the park will have to close,” he said, his
‘voice cracwkithi snadngess . “I feel so awful for you.
Dierdre. You worked so hard. . .”
“I'm keeping the park open,” Dierdre announced.
Robin’s mouth dropped open. “Excuse me?”
“I'm keeping it open,” she repeated. “Daddy would
want me to keep it open,” she sighed. “Besides, I have
no choice.”
His dark eyes studied her face. “No choice?”
“We're broke,” Dierdre blurted out. “We don’t
have a dime, Robin. I have to keep the park open—tc
pay Daddy’s hospital bills. We don’t even have insur:
ance.”
He let out a gasp, as if he’d been stabbed.
Robin cares so much about me, Dierdre thought
He’s such a good friend. He’s so upset for me. He
actually looks wounded.
“If only I could help,” he murmured.
Dierdre glanced at her watch. “Pve got to run. Pve
got to get to the hospital.”
She turned toward the front gate, then stopped. “4
got another weird phone call,” she told him.
Robin’s eyes widened in surprise. “A phone cal
GA

THE LAST SCREAM
bout me? That’s so sick. What did they say this
ime?”
“The same thing,” Dierdre sighed. “Whoever it is
aid he was coming to tell me the truth about you.”
She saw Robin’s chin quiver. He bit his bottom lip.
“So sick,” he murmured again. “So sick.”
“You're right,” she agreed. “Who could it be?”
Robin shrugged. “I have no idea. Why would some-
me want to warn you about me?”
“Pm a little scared,” Dierdre admitted. “There are
© many sick, twisted people in the world. What if—”
“Tt’s just a stupid joke,” Robin interrupted. “It has
o be.”
She saw the thoughtful expression on his face. Saw
‘im clench his jaw.
“Tg’ot vto erun ,” she told him. “Call mel ater?” She
urried away.
“Right. Later,” he called after her.
Dierdre was trotting to the front gate when she saw
he tall, lanky red-haired boy.
She stopped with a startled gasp.
He stared at her, a strange, lopsided grin on his
ace.
Her heart pounding, Dierdre stood still and waited
ir him to approach.
45

cnePlep
9
Whe is making those phone calls t
Dierdre? Robin wondered, his mind whirring.
Who knows the truth about me?
It has to be the same person who sent her th
newspaper clipping from 1935. The one with m
picture.
Robin felt lucky he had been able to convinc
Dierdre it was a picture of his grandfather. But what:
he weren’t so lucky next time? He had to find out wh
was trying to warn her.
It isn’t Meghan, he knew.
Meghan is completely fooled. Meghan would neve
do anything to ruin my plans. Because she doesn
know my real plans.
No. Not Meghan.
But then who?
Who else knows that P’'m not really a teenager? Wh
46

THE LAST SCREAM
se would have that old newspstoary ptoe sernd to
ierdre? Who else would be calling her?
A chilling thought almost made him cry out.
Had someone followed him from the past?
Had someone else from 1935 found a way to move
) the future? Someone who knew the whole story?
ymeone eager to spoil Robin’s plans?
Robin didn’t want to think it possible. But it was
e only answer.
What a shocking, horrible afternoon, Robin
ought. First Dierdre breaks the awful news that she
is decided to keep Fear Park open. Thhee renaliz es
at someone from the past is out to get him.
His mind spinning, Robin turned to leave.
He had gone only six or seven steps when he saw a
d-haired boy giving Dierdre an awkward hug.
Was it the same boy Meghan had pointed out? Yes.
Robin stepped back into the shadow of the Brad-
ys’ office trailer. He shielded his eyes from the bright
nlight that flooded over the gate.
Whoa! Robin thought. What is going on here?
How does Dierdre know that guy?
He crept deeper into the shadows. He didn’t want
her of them to see him.
Dierdre and the boy were both talking at once.
srvously, Robin thought. He squinted from the
adows into the sunlight. Yes. They both appeared
ry tense.
The red-haired boy kept shoving his hands into the
ckets of his baggy shorts, then pulling them out
ain, then shoving them back in.
47

FEAR PARK — .
Dierdre shifted her weight uncomfortably frot
foot to foot.
Why are they so nervous? Robin wondered.
And then he decided: That boy is telling Dierds
something she doesn’t want to hear. ae
keeps glancing around and fidgeting.
That boy is telling her about me.
Desthpe wiarmtth eof the day, Robin felt a chil
He knew he was staring at someone else from the pas
~ Someone who had come to expose him and ruin h
plans.
The boy swept back his long red hair and continue
talking. Dierdre was shaking her head, her feature
drawn tightly, a frown on her face.
Who is he? How did he get here? Robin wonderet
Did he come alone?
Robin narrowed his gaze on the boy’s face. I don
remember him, he realized. I don’t recognize him.
Meghan had seen the boy too. She hadn’t reco
nized him either.
What were the two of them talking about so ser
ously?
Robin stood too far away to try to read their lips.
only there were some way to sneak up closer.
But they were in the middle of the open square th:
led to the front gate. IfR obin stepped away from tl
trailer, they were certain to see him.
So Robin sank back in the shadows and watche
He didn’t move until Dierdre and the boy starte
walking side by side to the gate.
They’re leaving together! Robin saw. Together!
48

THE LAST SCREAM
Pve got to act fast, he decided. I can’t let this boby—
hoever he is—ruin all of my hard work.
Robin felt a sting. He reached up to the side of his
ce to swat a fly.
And a chunk of his cheek dropped off in his hand.
“Ohh.” He let out a moan as he stared at the soft
ob off lesh.
It’s the tension, he realized. It’s the worry. The fear.
Pve got to solve this mystery right away. I’vgote t o!
49

cn9Plep,
Rimes. a ae
Then he tried to read for a while. But he couldn’
shake the red-bhoya friomr hies mdin d.
Why don’t I remember him? Robin wondered. Wa
he one of the kids who died on the work crew in 1935'
If so, how did he figure out that my spell forced thos
kids to hatchet one another to death? How did hi
figure out that I was responsible?
If he died back then, how did he follow me to the
future?
No, Robin decided. He couldn’t have been on tha
work crew.
But, thewhon i,s h e?
Someone I knew back at Shadyside High?
A Bradley?
No, 00, no. Robin pounded his fist against the wall
The Bradleys don’t know the dark arts. They don’
know how to cast spells.
30

THE LAST SCREAM
[Did this boy make himself immortal? Robin won-
ered. Has he been following me all these years?
jaiting for this moment to ruin all my plans?
[Robin picked up the telephone. Maybe if he asked
prefully, he could get some information from
iierdre. Maybe he could find out how much Dierdre
new.
| He dialed her number at the trailer in the park. She
icked it up after two rings.
‘ “Hii it’s me,” he told her. “I just wondered how you
ere doing.”
“Well... Pm kind of busy right now, Robin.”
'He heard a new coldness in her voice. He recog-
ized it instantly. Something has changed, he knew.
that red-haired boy told her about me. I can tell.
'“I thought maybe you and I could get together.
Saybe tonight. You know. Near closing time.”
Drumming his fingers on the table, he listened to
ne long silence at her end.
“I don’t think so,” she replied finally. Her tone was
‘ill distant. Icy. “It’s so hard for me now,” she
ontinued. “I’m trying to keep the park going. And
isit Daddy. And—”
“How is he?” Robin interrupted.
Is he dead yet? Please say yes.
“Still in a coma,” Dierdre replied with a sigh.
Nothing has changed. The doctors . . . ” Her voice
railed off.
“Well, the Ferris wheel is still closed. So Pm not
yorking. I’ll come by later,” Robin told her. “Maybe
ou and I can—”
“I really don’t think I can,” she interrupted. Again
|

‘*
FEAR PARK
he heard the new coldneins hse r voice. ‘Tp 0m
she added.
She didsonund’ storr y.
Is that fear I hear in her voice? Robin wondered.
Does she know the truth about me? And is st
afroaf mie dnow ?
“Take it easy,” he said, trying to sound sympathe
ic. “I know everything will be okay.”
“ThaRonbink. Ssee ,you .” Her reply was curt arf
~ cold.
He hung up.
He pictthe uredr-haieredd b oy. And felt ang
tighten his stomach. He swallowed hard, a sour tas
in his mouth.
Pve got to know if that boy is immortal. P’ve got
know if he is turning Dierdre against me.
It began to rain late that afternoon. A gentle su
mer rain that made the lawn sparkie like emeralds
Robin glanced out the front window once, th
pultlhee hdeav y drapes shut. He felt like surroundi
himsine dalrknfess .
Bathini danrkngess . So soothing.
Meghan was upstairs in her room. The only sou
in the old house was the soft patter of rain against t
window.
Should I tell Meghan that we’ve been followed? |
asked himself.
He decided to wait. To wait until he was certain
To wait until the boy had been taken care of.
The rain stopped just before dinnertime. He a
32

THE LAST SCREAM
beshan atae qui et dinner. They hadn’t much to talk
bout these days. They ate many meals in silence.
Both of us used to talk at once, he remembered with
hme sadness. We bubbled over. We laughed. We
rked. We were so excited to be together. So happy.
Meghan looked as beautiful as ever, of course. The
eekly treatments he gave her made sure that she
‘ver changed.
[But he had no feeling left for her. No feeling at all.
‘She doesn’t want to stay immortal. She wants to
ow old and die, he knew.
I Maybe he’d find a way to give her that wish. . . .
‘The sky had cleared. But the sidewastlillk gsli s-
med from the day’s rain as Robin made his way
bong Fear Street to the park. He felt a cold shock on
se back of his neck as rainwater dripped from the
_ As he neared the wide parking lot, he could hear
usic and voices from the park. He heard a shrill
sephant trumpet from the wild animal preserve.
_ Aline of people stood in twos and threes in front of
ae ticket booths. Many of them wore rain gear in case
ae storm pickedup again.
Robin showed his pass and slipped into the park.
‘he fouinn thte maaini entnrywa y sent up its colorful
rays. A hand-painted sign proclaimed that the park
vould remain open until eleven tonight.
Robin glared at the sign, surprised by his own
)
inger.
Open till eleven? This park shouldn’t be open at all,
| 53

FEAR PARK — ;
he thought bitterly. ’ve worked so hard to close
down. And I have failed. Failed!
Until now, he added.
He snickered to himself. No more Mr. Nice Guy, h
thought.
He came around the Bradleys’ office trailer fror
the back. The long window up near the flat roof wa
dotted with rainwater. Robin stood on tiptoe to pee
inside.
~ He saw Dierdre standing in front of the desk. Sh
wore denim cutoffs and a pink midriff top. Her brow
hair was pulled straight back and tied behind he
head. She was talking rapidly, excitedly, gesturin
with both hands.
Whom was she talking to?
Robin pressed up against the wet window glass t
see.
He gasped.
The red-haired boy!
Robin dropped quickly and hunched down, hopin
he hadn’t been seen. His heart pounding, he made h
way to the side of the trailer. And waited.
Who is this guy? What are they talking about s
excitedly?
A few minutes later the trailer door swung ope1
Dierdre stepped out first. The red-haired boy fo
lowed.
Robin shrank into the shadows and watched then
They were walking close together, side by side, bot
of them talking at once.
Where were they headed?
Toward the rides area?
54

THE LAST SCREAM
areful not to get too close, Robin trailed after
rem. He strained to hear their words. But the music
d other voices drowned them out.
ey stopped to buy Cokes at a stand. Robin
around the side of the food booth. He heard
(} (A
= call the boy Gary.
wi gt
Gary.
‘So now I know his name, Robin told himself. His
rain was whirring. Gary. Gary. Did I know a Gary
ck in 1935?
I No. I don’t remembae Garry .
| Pressing against the dark wall of the food stand, he
satched them finish their Cokes. They still appeared
ervous, tense.
What are they talking about? Robin wondered. Are
aey talking about me?
Gary tossed the two paper cups into a trash can.
then he tried to take Dierdreh’ansd . But she quickly
ulied her hand away.
| Robin caught disappointment on Gary’s face.
(Gary... Gary...
| Robin struggled to remember. Was there a Bradley
amed Gary back in the 193Di0d tshat? cre ep
iichard Bradley have a friend named Gary?
‘ This is going to drive me crazy, Robin realized.
| He followed Dierdre and Gary to the rides area.
jouncy calliope music floated over the park from the
arousel at the end of the walkway. To Robin’s left
ood the Ferris wheel, dark and empty. Wooden
awhorses had been placed around it to keep people
way.
‘His eyes on Dierdre and Gary, Robin nearly
| 55

FEAR PARK —
tripped over a double baby stroller. The moti
pushing the stroller yelled something at Robin. But. .
ignored her.
Hiéidddged away andicit dhocogh @giuprof eal
ers. He didn’t want to lose sight of Dierdre and Gar)
His prey.
The hunter and his prey, Robin thought.
He watched them approach the Twirl ’n’ Swirl. Th
ride was circular, like a merry-go-round. Around th
~ circle were what looked like playground swings 01
very long metal lines: One perpsero swnin g.
When the ride started up, the swings began to mov
in a wide circle. Round and round, slowly at firs!
Then faster and faster—until the swings tilted out a
they spun, flew out until they were almost horizon
with the ground.
Dierdre and Gary stood outside the low mete
fence, watching the ride. As the swings picked w
speed, the riders squealed and laughed. Some she
their hands up into the air. Others gripped the safet
bars and held on tight.
Robin saw Dierdre laugh. She let Gary grab her arr
and pull her into the short line of people waiting t
get on next.
I don’t understand this, Robin thought, studyin
their faces as he moved a little closer.
If he came to tell her the truth about me, why a1
they laughing and kidding around and going on rides
The swings lowered as the ride spun slower. A fe'
seconds later it slowed to a stop. Riders hopped of
smiling and laughing, and hurried dizztio tlhey e x
gate.
36

THE LAST SCREAM
Keeping in the shadows, Robin moved cautiously
‘the metal fence. He watched Dierdre and Gary
amb into swings.
Se watcthehm esmidle at each other. He watched
ary fiddle with the safety bar that dropped down
ser his waist.
[Thbaar wton 't do you any good, Robin thought.
[Unless you’re immortal, Gary. Unless you can’t be
ied.
{Robin shut his eyes and began to chant a spell.
[Let’s see what you are, Gary.
[Let’s see if you’re immortal ... or ify ou can be
= af

cnaPle,,
Mp ati was crying.
The shrill wails interrupted Robin’s chant. H
opened his eyes. Confused, he glanced quickly alon
the circle of swings.
Dierdre and Gary were sitting patiently, starin
straight ahead, waiting for the ride to begin.
The cries grew louder.
Robin saw the attendant hurry over to a swing 0
the other side. He pulled up the safety bar and helpe
a little boy to the ground.
The boy had changed his mind at the last minut
Robin realized. He had decided the ride was too scar
for him.
Robin chuckled to himself. That little guy doesn
know just how scary this ride is going to be!
The boy ran through the gate to his parents. Th
attendant ushered in a teenage girl to take the boy
place on the swing.
38

THE LAST SCREAM
.All the swings were filled now, Robin saw. The
‘tendant trotted over to the controls and threw the
wer. The swings slowly began to move.
| Robin shut his eyes and began to chant again.
‘GoodGarby, yhe etho,ugh t.
iG‘o odbye—unless you are from the past. Unless
pu have somehow made yourself immortal.
| Goodbye—unlyoeu shsav e come hetro reesc ue
ear Park from my plans.
If you live through this, I will know that you are
rothem pa st.
And if that is the case, I will have to find another
yay to kill you. It won’t be as casy, Robin told
fimBust Ie willl fifnd .a w ay.
I promise you, Gary. I will find a way. ...
Dierdre gripped the safety bar and shifted her
yeight, trying to get more comfortable in the hard
slastic seat. She watched the attendant push the lever
nd felt her swing move forward with a soft jolt.
She let go of the safety bar and folded her hands in
er lap. She took a deep breath and prepared to enjoy
he ride.
This is crazy, she thought.
I have too much work to do. Too much to worry
ibout.
I don’t have time in my life right now for fun. Why
1m I wasting my time on a silly swing ride?
Why did I let Gary talk mei nto this? Why am I here
with him in the first place? :
She glanced in his direction. But the swings were
59

FEAR PARK
swirling higher now, circling faster. She couldn’t see
him.
Gary is so strange, Dierdre thought.
It’s as if he’s from a different planet or something.
The strange things he talks about. Sometimes I
don’t know whether to believe him or not.
He frightens me. He really does.
So why am Is ittihnegre , twirling around, riding the
Twirl ’n’ Swirl with him?
Dierdre’s brown hair flew wildly around her head
as the swing spun even faster. She reached up and
tried to tug it into place—but quickly gave up when
she saw that it was impossible.
Kids squealed and laughed as the swings spun
faster.
Dierdre glimpsed Gary up ahead, his red hair
flying, his hands straight up in the air. She calledt o
him. But of course he couldn’t hear her.
She gripped the safety bar and held on tightly as
her swing spun out, tilted, horizontal to the ground
now.
It really feels like flying, she thought. The rush of
cold wind against her face made her smile. So re-
freshing.
But what is that strange purple smoke?
She glanced around, trying to see where the puffs of
purple smoke were coming from. But she was whirling
too fast to see anything clearly.
All a blur, she realized. A blur of dark sky and
laughing faces—and purple . . . purple smoke.
Is that Gary up ahead?
60

THE LAST SCREAM
She squinted through the purple as the car swung
out even farther, spiant fnulli spneedg no w.
And then she heard the loud pop pop.
She saw the lines snap. Saw the swing up ahead go
flying.
Flying off by itself. Flying free.
Saw the lines pop off from the top. And the swing
fly off.
Fly up.
“Nooooooce!” Dierdre’s wail of horror was muf-
fled by the onrush of air, by the clouds of thick purple
smoke.
All a blur. All a purple blur.
But she could see the boy’s hands flailing helplessly
as the swing shot straight up.
Into the tight cluster of power lines.
Spinning, spinning, Dierdre craned her neck, strug-
gied to see.
The boy’s swing crashed into the power lines almost
silently.
But then a sharp crackling sound rose up over the
screams of the riders and crowd down below.
A sharp crackling sound. A buzz. And a flash of
yellow light.
Dierdre saw the boy’s hands and feet fly up against
the power lines.
And then she saw his body outlined in bright
yellow—crackling, bright yellow as the electricity
sizzled around him.
His whole body twisted and jerked inside the buzz-
ing yellow light.
61

FEAR PARK
_ And then the swing fell away, fell off the wires. Fell
fast.
Dierdre knew when it landed. She could hear the
sickening crack.
And then she shut her eyes and screamed and
screamed and screamed.
62

cnaPle,
12
Rae opened his eyes in time to see the
lines on Gary’s swing pop off. Squinting through the
swirls of purple smoke, Robin watched Gary’s swing
float free.
A pleased grin spread over Robin’s face as the swing
shot up to the power lines. He saw the flash ofe lectric
current. Heard the sharp sizzle.
People screamed. Cries of horror rose up to drown
out the electrical sizzle that shook Gary’s body.
Robin watched Gary’s arms and legs snap and twist
helplessly. Watched as the bright current shot around
Gary’s body.
The swing appeared to stick up there forever. But it
only stayed against the wires for a few seconds, Robin
knew.
Long enough, he thought.
Long enough to fry Gary.
Then the swing fell quickly. ae down.
63

FEAR PARK
People on the ground dove out of the way.
The swing landed with a hard crack. Inside the
fence. On the far side. Away from Robin.
The purple smoke billowed and swirled. Then it
started to fade.
Robin’s heart pounded. Such excitement!
Kids were crying. People were running around the
low fence, shouting and pointing in alarm. In horror.
The swings finally began to slow.
Robin smiled again. The attendant must have been
too stunned to move, too shocked to stop the ride.
Robin watched the swings spin slower, slower. He
searched for Dierdre. Was she the one screaming and
waving her arms above her head?
Or was she the one tugging at her brown hair, head
lowered, shoulders heaving?
“Dierdre, where are you?” Robin murmured out
loud.
Dierdre, he thought happily, there seems to have
been another tragedy at your amusement park.
Another horrifying accident.
Won’t you give up now, dear Dierdre? Won’t you
close up the park? Pack up your things? Go to your
poor father’s bedside and care for him?
How many tragic accidents will it take, Dierdre?
The swings had finally slowed to a full stop. The
dazed riders were lowering themselves to the ground,
shaking their heads, crying, in shock.
Robin searched for Dierdre but didn’t see her.
More people went running across the field, hurrying
to the fallen swing.
64

THE LAST SCREAM
Shouts and cries tore through the air. In the dis-
tance, Robin heard the shrill wail of a siren.
Robin climbed over the low fence and joined the
others running across the field. A crowd had already
cirthce fallleen sdwin g.
Murmurs of horror mixed with shrill cries of disbe-
lief. Away from the crowd, a man leaned over the
fence, vomiting loudly.
“Excme.u Exscusee m e. Let me through.” Robin
had to fight his way through the crowd.
Pushing and bumping people out of his way, Robin
forced himself to the front of the circle. Then he
stared down at the broken swing.
Stared down at the broken, twisted body of the boy.
And gasped in shock. “No! No! I don’t believe it!”
65

enable,
13
ieee swallowed hard. The ground
seemed to tilt and sway, and he felt as if he might lose
his balance.
He stared down at the pale face of the dead boy.
The head tilted at such an odd angle. The boy’s rib
cage crushed beneath the safety bar of the swing.
Robin stared down at the boy, trying to make the
face change. Trying to twist the features into the right
shapes. Trying to change the nose, the blankly staring
gray eyes. Trying to change the short blond hair to
red.
But he couldn’t make the face transform. He
couldn’t change the boy into Gary.
Feeling his heart flutter in his chest, Robin realized
that he was staring down at a boy he had never seen
before.
The wrong boy. He had killed the wrong boy.
Not Gary. Not Gary. Not Gary.
66

THE LAST SCREAM
The words repeated like an ugly chant in Robin’s
mind.
Not Gary. Not Gary. Not Gary.
But why not Gary?
Confused, feeling shaky and weak—suddenly feel-
ing his true age—Robin turned away from the
crushed body.
His eyes searched the circle of onlookers. Their
faces flashed red, then dark, red, then dark, as an
ambulance pulled up, its light flashing.
“Move back! Move back!” somebody shouted.
Grim-faced police officers appeared. They raised
black nightsticks in both hands and motioned with
them, shouting orders, moving the crowd away from
the fallen boy.
“Back! Everyone back! Now!”
“Make room! Make room for help to get through!”
Too late, Robin thought. Too late for help.
He saw a police officer staring at him, and he
obediently began to back away. He stopped when he
saw Dierdre.
She stood near the fence, away from the onlookers,
huddled close to Gary. Gary had an arm around her
shoulders. Robin couldn’t see her expression. Her
face was pressed against the front of Gary’s shirt.
Gary. Not Gary. Gary. Not Gary.
Robin’s mind whirred. The magic had never failed
him before.
He blinked several times. But he couldn’t make
Gary disappear. He couldn’t send Gary into the
broken, fallen swing, where he belonged.
67

a
FEAR PARK —
Gary leaned over Dierdre, tiltingh isf aced ownt o
hers, his arm wrapped protectairovuned lhyer .
What went wrong? Robin wondered.
Did I make a mistake? Did I simply make the
wrong swing pop loose from its lines?
The swings were spinning so fast. It would be easy
to make a mistake. To choose the wrong swing to send
flying.
Is that what I did?
Or did Gary change swings at the last minute?
When I shut my eyes to begin the ancient chant, did
he climb out of his swing and move quickly to
another?
Or did I call up the spell incorrectly? Is it as simple
as that?
A small mistake? Just a mistake?
Or did Gary survive because he has magic of his
own?
Did Gary survive because he’s immortal? Because
he’s from the past? Because he’s already dead?
Cautiously, Robin made his way closer to Dierdre
and Gary.
Police officers swarmed over the field, examining
the swings. Near the fence, the boy’s broken body had
been covered with a canvas tarp. White-uniformed
medics were lifting it on a stretcher into an ambu-
lance.
Onlookers gathered in small groups. Some mur-
mured softly. Others stared in shocked silence.
A TV reporter stepped into a bright spotlight. He
straightened his tie and raised a microphone in one
68

THE LAST SCREAM
hand. “Are we rolling?” he kept repeating. “Are we
rolling? Tell me when we’re rolling.”
White circles of light from police flashlights criss-
crossed over the grass. Two more ambulances had
pulled up to the ride, flashing red lights on their roofs
casting an eerie, flickering glow over everyone.
Robin narrowed his eyes, trying to see clearly
throtheu dgarthing , flashing lights. He squinted hard
across the grass at Dierdre.
And realized she was staring back at him.
With the coldest look on her face.
The icy stare made Robin turn away. Has Gary told
her the truth about me? he wondered. Does she know
everything?
69

cneaPle,
6 D
o you remember the day the plants
attacked you, Daddy?” Dierdre asked. The memory
made her smile.
“Remember? Mom and I were in the den. You came
in carrying a bowl of cereal. It must have been a
weekend, since we were all home.
“I remember it was a beautiful morning,” Dierdre
continued. “I can picture the bright sunlight stream-
ing in through the den windows. Remember? You said
it would be even sunnier if Mom’s pients didn’t block
the windows?
“And then you sat down in that big brown armchair
you used to love. The one Mom said belonged in the
cab of a truck. She always wanted to put that chair in
the attic, but you would never let her.
“Anyway, you sat down in the chair, remember?
You leaned back and raised the cereal bowl in one
hand. And that’s when the plants attacked.
70

THE LAST SCREAM
“Thweree yvine s. Two pots of big vines. I remem-
ber how big and shiny the leaves were. You remember |
how Mom took care of those plants. She’d spend half
a day just on the plants in the den.
“Anyway, those vines seemed to reach around the
sides of the chair. Both vines moved at the same time.
It looked as if they were reaching for you.
“You were so shocked. You jumped up and spilled
the cereal all over the floor. All over you and the floor.
‘They attacked me!’ you screamed. ‘Those plants of
yours—they attacked me!’
“Mom and I started laughing, and we couldn’t
stop,” Dierdre recalled, wiping a tear from one eye. “I
guess it was because you looked so serious. You really
thought the two vines were attacking you!
“Of course, the window was open. And the wind
blew the vines onto your chair. But you were con-
vinced the plants were attacking you. ‘It’s a jungle in
here! A jungle!’ you shouted.
“And Mom pretended to get really offended. Be-
cause you know how much she loved her plants. She
loved tending them, watering them, cutting them
back. She loved caring for them. I guess it made her
feel peaceful. I guess plant time was her peaceful time
of day—don’t you think?
“Well, after that Mom and I had to laugh every time
you came into the den and sat down in that chair. We
could just picture the vines attacking you again. It
made us laugh every time.
“Of course, after Mom died . . .” Dierdre’s voice
caught in her throat. “Well, I understood that you
71

FEAR PARK
didn’t have time to care for all the plants. I under-
stood why the plants had to go.
“TI guess they probably reminded you too much of
Mom, huh, Daddy? But it made me sad. It made me
so sad to walk into the den and not see it crammed
with green plants. It was as if so much life had been
taken from the house.
“Do you know what I mean, Dad? Mom’s life—
and thtehe npla nt life. ..So much life had been
taken away from us. Do you hear me, Daddy? Can
you hear me at all?
“Or am I talking to myself? Am I just making
myself cry? Remembering what our lives used to be
like when Mom was alive. And when you... when
VOUs.. -
A sob escaped Dierdre’s throat. She wiped away
another tear tracking down her cheek.
She leaned over the smooth white sheets of the
hospital bed and squeheerz faethder’ s hand. It felt so
soft, so cold, so lifeless in her hand.
“Can you hear me at all, Daddy?” she whispered.
The tubes attached to Mr. Bradley gurgled as if in
reply. But Dierdre’s father didn’t move, didn’t blink,
didn’t move or make a sound.
Dierdre stared down at her father. He had been in
the hospital for less than two weeks. But already his
cheeks were sunken and pale. He had always been so
robust, so alive. And now his face looked almost
skeletal.
His eyes remained shut, the eyelids fluttering from
time to time but not opening. His chest rose with each
breath, a soft wheeze escaping his white lips.
72

THE LAST SCREAM
Dierdre had spent the morning with the family
lawyer at the Shadyside police station. They answered
question after question about safety precautions and
maintenance of the Twirl ’n’ Swirl.
“How did this accident occur?” the lieutenant kept
demanding. “How did two lines on the swing pop
loose at once?”
Dierdre had no answer for him.
She arrived at the hospital shortly after lunch. She
had eagerly found Dr. Bruhn in his office. “Any
change? Did Daddy wake up?”
The young doctor scratched his smooth, beardless
jaw. “Not yet,” he told her. “But his vital signs
remain good.”
What did that mean? she wondered.
“Can’t you tell me when Daddy might wake up?
Can’t you give me any idea at all?” Dierdre de-
manded shrilly.
Dr. Bruhn shook his head. He gave a slight shrug of
his narrow shoulders. “I wish I knew, Dierdre.
There’s just no answer to that question.”
“When he wakes up...” Dierdre started to say.
“Will he be okay? I mean, after being in a coma for so
long, will his mind be . . . the same?”
A sigh escaped the young doctor’s lips. “I can’t
answer that one either,” he replied with some sadness.
He climbed to his feet and stepped around the
cluttered desk. He placed a hand gently on Dierdre’s
shoulder. “We can only hope for the best. We have
to——”
“But when will he wake up?” Dierdre demanded.
“When?”
73

—
FEAR PARK
“The brain has a natural healing ability,” the
doctor replied softly, his hand still resting on
Dierdre’s shoulder. “Sometimes it takes days for a
coma patient to come out of it. Sometimes weeks.
Sometimes . . .” His voice trailed off.
Dierdre opened her mouth to talk, but no sound
came out. She cleared her throat. “Dr. Bruhn—”
“Go see your father,” the doctor instructed. “Go
talk to him. He can probably hear you, Dierdre. Your
voice will mean a lot to him. Even if he doesn’heta r
the words, your voice will mean a lot.”
The doctor returned to his desk chair. Dierdre
stood up shakily.
“We are monitoring him carefully. We have every
hope,” he told her. And then he added, “‘Be brave.”
“Be brave.”
The words followed her down the twisting, pale
green halls of Shadyside General.
“Be brave.”
She tooa kdee p breath and stepped into her father’s
room. Pulled a folding chair up to his bedside. The
sheets so smooth and unwrinkled.
Smooth and unwrinkled because he didn’t move.
She took his hand, his soft, lifehalnd.e Asnds s he
statro ttalke tod hi m. Holbadck ithe nteargs t hat
tried to force their way from her eyes, holding back
the sobs, holding back the screams, she begtao tnalk .
And remember.
She remembered the story about the den plants,
and she told it to him, leaning close, so close she could
smell the piney smell on his skin from the soap the
nurses used to wash him.
74

THE LAST SCREAM
She told him other stories, talking softly, just above
a whisper. Squeezing his hand—his baby hand—as
she talked.
As she talked, Dierdre noticed a shadow moving
acrthoe swinsdow . She could hear a low roar from
outside. It seemed to rise and fall in rhythm with the
shadow.
She moved to the window to investigate. Her fa-
ther’s room was on the first floor. Acrtohe sparskin g
lot, Dierdre could see two tall bulldozers. Their
enormous shovels rose up in unison, like two ele-
phants raising their trunks at a waterhole. Dierdre
could see them filled with large chunks of rock.
Prombakinag tbhe lparkying lot bigger, she realized.
“Well, the noise doesn’t bother you—does it, Dad-
dy?” she asked sadly. She dropped back into the chair
beside his bed.
The tubes gurgied. A heart monitor pulsed steadily
against the wall.
Dierdre slumped against the hard chair back. “I'm
glad you can’t hear some things,” she told her father,
struggling to keep her voice low and steady. “I’m glad
you can’t hear about the accident at the park last
night.”
Did his eyelids flutter? No. Dierdre studied her
father’s face. He didn’t move.
“I’m glad you can’t hear about one more innocent
person dying at Fear Park,” Dierdre continued, un-
able to hide her emotion. “I don’t understand it,
Daddy. I really don’t. People say the land is cursed.
Maybe it’s true. Maybe it really is. But I think—”
7s

FEAR PARK
Dierdre stopped when she heard a scraping sound
behind her from the door.
She spun around quickly as a figure stepped into
the room.
“Huh? What are you doing here?” she cried.
76

cnaPle,
1D
Rais tried to hide his surprise. But a
loud gasp escaped his throat.
He struggled to keep his expression calm and
unrevealing. “Dierdre!” he cried. “I didn’t expect—”
No. He didn’t expect her to be here.
He expected Dierdre to be at the police station,
answering questions about the tragic accident of the
night before.
Having Dierdre in her father’s room did not fit in at
all with Robin’s plan. A simple plan. A plan to finish
what he had started back at the Ferris wheel.
Robin had come to the hospital to murder Mr.
Bradley.
He is so weak, it will not take long, Robin had
reasoned. I'll either squeeze my fingers over the air
tube. Or else smother him with a pillow.
When her father is dead, Dierdre will be left with
7Z

FEAR PARK
no hope at all. Then she will have to give up and close
Fear Park.
But now, there she stood.
Ruining Robin’s plan. Blocking his way once again.
Glaring at him coldly.
“Robin? What are you doing here?” she repeated.
“J...uh...came to see how your dad was
doing,” he told her. He stepped up beside Dierdre and
gazed down at Mr. Bradley. “I’ve been thinking about
him a lot,” Robin continued softly. “Thinking about
that horrible day at the Ferris wheel. How I could
have saved him. But .. .” Robin forced his voice to
crack.
“You shouldn’t blame yourself,” Dierdre replied,
keeping her eyes on her father. “You can’t blame
yourself for an accident, Robin.”
Why did she stare straight ahead so icily? Robin
wondered. Why didn’t she talk to him with the same
feeling, the same warmth, as before?
He knew the answer.
Gary.
Outside the window, he heard the roar and grind of
construction equipment. A squeal. Then a crash as
rocks tumbled from their large front claws.
“He ... hasn’t woken up?” Robin asked softly.
ignoring Dierdre’s coldness.
Dierdre shook her head. She bit her lower lip.
“What do the doctors say?” Robin asked.
“They don’t know anything,” Dierdre replied bit-
terly.
“Don’t they have any idea—” Robin started to ask
78

THE LAST SCREAM
Dierdre turned to him, her chin quivering. “I... I
eally don’t feel like talking.”
Robin took a step back. “Okay. ’'m sorry. I—”
“It was really nice of you to come.” She said the
words automatically, with no feeling at all. When she
‘ised her eyes to him, they held no warmth.
“Well, if there’s anything I can do . . .” Robin said.
There’s a lot I could do, he thought. If only you
weren't here, Dierdre.
“Thank you,” she replied stiffly. Then she nar-
‘owed her eyes at him. “Were you in the park last
light?”
The question caught Robin by surprise.
Didn’t she see me there by the Twirl ’n’ Swirl?
Didn’t she glare at me so coldly while she held on to
It was so dark. And all those lights were flashing, he
ealized.
Maybe she didn’t see me.
“No,” he told her. “I wasn’t there. But I saw what
1appened. On the news. I feel so bad for you, Dierdre.
Yeally. I—”
She turned back to her father.
Before Gary, she would have rushed into my arms,
tobin thought bitterly.
Before Gary, she would have turned to me for
omfort. She would have confided in me.
Before Gary, she trusted me.
And now...
“I'll talk to you later,” he said. “I hope everything
vorks out.”
79

7
FEAR PARK {
For me. Not for you! he thought angrily.
He turned and hurried out of the room. His shoe:
thudded noisily on the hard floor as he made his way
quickly through the twisting green halls.
Bright sunlight forced him to shield his eyes as hi
pulled open the side door and stepped out onto the
parking lot. He squinted into the glare, waiting for hi:
eyes to adjust.
And saw Gary leaning against a blue Honda Civie
near the back of the lot.
He’s following me, Robin realized.
Watching me.
Waiting for me.
80

cnaPle,
Des really think I'll let him do this?
Robin wondered, squinting into the hot white glare of
sunlight. The heat sent shimmering waves up from the
parking lot.
Gary, in a pale blue muscle shirt and denim cutoffs,
leaned casually against the car hood. His long red hair
caught the light of the sun. His whole head glowed as
if on fire.
Does he really think Pll stand here and let him spy
on me? Robin asked himself. Does he think he can
follow me wherever I go?
What does he think he’s doing?
Hasn’t he already done enough damage? Hasn’t he
told Dierdre the truth about me? Turned her against
me?
He has done what he came to do. Why is hes till
hanging around?
Gary shoved himself up from the car. He stretched.
81

e
FEAR PARK
Is he coming over here? Robin wondered. He
stepped back into the shelter of the hospital doorway.
Gary brushed back his long, coppery hair with both
hands. He kicked a front tire on the blue car.
He’s trying to fool me, Robin realized. He wants to
make me think that he’s not interested in me. He’s
pretending that he isn’t watching me.
What an idiot.
The sunlight beamed down on Robin, but he felt
only cold.
Cold hatred.
I won't let this idiot spoil my plans.
The steam shovels roared behind Gary. They dug
into the rocky patch beside the parking lot. And rose
up, carrying a full load of heavy gray rock.
As they dumped the load of rocks and turned to
grab up more, Robin had an idea.
He stepped out into the parking lot. Shielding his
eyes from the sunlight, he began to chant.
Do I remember this spell? he asked himself.
I think I do. I think I can get it right.
Right enough to take care of Gary.
Were you just lucky last night, Gary? Robin won-
dered.
You’re not immortal, are you? You don’t have any
special magic. You were just lucky last night—right?
“Let’s find out,” Robin murmured out loud. “Let’s
find out the truth once and for all.”
He shut his eyes and began to chant. He chanted
slowly, softly, struggling to remember the words.
When he opened his eyes, purple smoke swirled
82

THE LAST SCREAM
hickly over the parking lot. Snakes of purple slith-
red between the shimmering rays of golden sunlight.
Robin continued to chant, watching the purple
moke rise over the cars. The parking lot appeared to
jarken as the swirling smoke thickened to block the
ight.
Chanting softly, Robin glimpsed Gary through the
xeavy, dark mist. And he saw the steam shovels roll
ip behind Gary. Saw them raise their heavy loads.
Yes! It’s working! Robin saw.
And then a heavy curtain of purple smoke cut off
ris view.
Robin couldn’t see his victim. Couldn’t see the
approaching machines.
But over the whisper of his chants, Robin heard the
rind and roar of the big machines.
Then he heard the loud rumble of the heavy stones
is they toppled down, down from the twin claws of
he powerful steam shovels.
Robin grinned as he heard Gary’s startled scream.
83

cpePtey
17
he purple smoke swirled around him,
so thick and heavy Robin felt as if he were underwa-
ter. He tried to run across the lot. He was eager to see
Gary buried under a mountain ofr ock.
But the smoke spread and billoasw ife pdush,in g
him back.
Robin heard another loud scream. Then running
footsteps.
Pinpricks of yellow sunlight penetrthae tsweirldin g
purple fog. Then sharp beams of bright light cut
thrthoe thuickg darhknes s.
As the smoke began to fade, pushed away by the
streaming, bright sunlight, Robin rubbed his eyes. He
started toward the pile of rocks at the back of the lot.
Halfway across the lot, he stopped when he heard
voices behind him.
“Huh?” Robin spun around.
G4

THE LAST SCREAM
In time to see Gary rush up to Dierdre as she
stepped out of the hospital door.
“Whoa!” Robin cried out in shock.
Gary? How could Gary—?
What is going on here?
I heard Gary’s cry as the rocks fell on him, Robin
thought. I heard him scream. I heard it so clearly.
Another scream made Robin jump.
Turning back to the steam shovels, Robin saw the
two operators jump down from their machines. They
were screaming at each other, gesturing wildly with
their hands.
It wasn’t Gary who screamed when the rocks came
tumbling down, Robin realized. I heard one of the
scream.
And now the two men were screaming angrily at
each other, pointitno tgh e pile of rocks that had been
dropped where they weren’t supposed to be.
And Gary was running up to greet Dierdre.
Gary, safe and sound, was greeting Dierdre.
“P’ve been waiting for you,” Robin heard him say.
“I thought you might need a ride.”
Waitfoir Dniergdr e?
No. No way. Robin knew better.
Robin knew that Gary had been waiting for him.
Keepinga close watch on him.
Robin wasn’t sure.
He ducked behind a car. He didn’t want Dierdre
and Gary to see him studying them.
His mind spun. He felt dazed. The bright sun
seemed to make him dizzy.
85

FEAR PARK
What had just happened here? Robin realized that
he wasn’t sure of anything.
Had Gary used magic to escape the tumbling rocks?
Or was he just lucky? Did Gary start to run to the
hospital door just as the rocks began to fall?
Magic or luck?
Was Gary an immortal from the past or just a very
lucky human?
Robin had tried to kill him twice—and failed
twice. Could Gary be killed?
Robin hated feeling so confused, so unsure.
Pve run out of patience, he realized. It’s time to
finish this drama.
You’re not going to win, Gary. If you have come
from the past to ruin my plans, you are not going to
win.
Pil see to that.
I guess P’ve put off killing Dierdre because a part of
me actually likes her.
But if I am going to shut down Fear Park, I can’t put
that unpleasant task off any longer.
Leaning against the car, Robin pulled himself up
and peered around, making sure Dierdre and Gary
had left. He started to stand up—when two hands
grabbed him roughly by the shoulders and spun him
around.
86

onaPle,
18
|e res stared into the angry red face of a
middle-aged man who looked more like a bulldog
than a human.
“Hey—let go of me!” Robin cried.
The man kept his tight grasp on Robin’s shoulders.
He narrowed his tiny round eyes accusingly at Robin.
“What were you doing to my car?” he growled.
“Huh? Your car?” Robin glanced back at the car
he’d been hiding behind.
The bulldog face reddened to a deep scarlet. “Steal-
ing my car?”
“No! No way!” Robin protested. “I—I dropped a
quarter on the ground. I just bent down to pick it up.
Really, sir!”
Pm over eighty years old, Robin thought angrily.
And I have to stand here acting like a frightened
teenager, calling this big idiot “sir”!
87

FEAR PARK
“[—I didn’t touch your car!” Robin added.
The tiny eyes glared at Robin for a few seconds
more. Then the man’s big fists slowly loosened their
hold.
The man grunted, as if to show that he was satisfied
with Robin’s story. The deep scarlet faded on his face.
He turned to his car, studying it with his eyes, then
rubbing a hand over the passenger door.
Robin’s heartbeat returned to normal. He started to
think clearly again.
He remembered a spell that brought a smile to his
face. I'll glue this big jerk to his car. I'll glue his skin to
the car so that he cannot be removed. He and his car
can stick together for the rest of his life.
Glancing up, Robin saw two white-uniformed
nurses watching him from the next aisle. A hospital
guard was hurrying across the lot toward him.
Forget the spell, Robin thought. I’ve got more
important problems to deal with.
The big man grunted again. “Sorry, kid. I saw you
leaonn thei canr agnd— ”
“No problem,” Robin interrupted. He turned
quiancd tkrottled yawa y.
He waited at the bus stop, shielding his eyes from
the bright sun, thinking about Dierdre.
Dieradndr Geary .
What a disappointing afternoon, he thought.
Maybe tonight will be more successful . . .
“Robin, you promised,” Meghan sighed. She tossed
her jacket on a living room chair and dropped down
on the chair arm.
88

THE LAST SCREAM
“Not yet,” Robin replied impatiently. “I’m not
He closed the book he’d been reading and gazed
acrtheo roosm ast h er. She had both hands raised to
the back of her red hair. She was fixing a braid that
had come loose.
Late afternoon shadows slid across the carpet from
the front window. Meghan appeared half in shadow,
halfi n light. Her emerald eyes glowed dully.
' “Where were you?” he asked.
She sighed again. “Just out for a walk.” She tugged
at her hair, tilting her head against the shoulder of her
olive sweater. “I’m so bored.”
“I know,” he murmured. “Maybe you need a
hobby.” He chuckled. He didn’t mean it seriously. He
just wanted to avoid their usual conversation about
how bored she wash,o w she wanttoe gdro w old.
- T'm so bored with you, Meghan, he thought, study-
ing her.
“You promised you'd find a spell,” she started to
complain. “You promised you’d find a way to let me
grow old.”
“Yes, yes.” He couldn’t keep the irritation from his
voice. How many times do we have to have this
conversation? he wondered.
“If you want to stay a teenager forever—fine,” she
told him. “But I can’t take it anymore, Robin. Let me
grow old without you.”
- “We'll go together. I don’t want to live without
you,” he said.
What a lie, he thought bitterly.
“Let’s do it now,” she urged, lowering her hands
89

FEAR PARK
from the braid. As she leaned toward him, her face
moved from light to shadow. “I can’t stand living
in two worlds anymore. Pm old and Pm young at
the same time. But I don’t belong in either world. I
have no frieNno dresal .li fe. No purpoI hsavee .onl y
you...”
“That used to be enough,” Robin murmured, sur-
’ prised at his own bitterness.
“But I’m not real,” Meghan protested. “Can’t you
undePr’'m as ghtost.a An livding ?gho st. Pm nota t
home anywhere. Not even inside my own body!” A
sob escaped her throat.
She leaned into the light, then back into shadow,
her eyes on Robin. She nibbled her bottom lip,
waiting for his reply.
He gazed back at her. She shifted uncomfortably.
Now half in shadow, half in light.
“Til find a spell,” Robin replied wearily. “I
promise.”
“When?”
“When my work is finished here,” he said firmly.
“But you can’t save the park,” Meghan protested.
“You can’t save it, Robin. You’ve tried and tried. But
your father’s curse is stronger than you, stronger than
your powers.”
Robin forced himself not to laugh in her face.
With everything that has happened, he thought,
Meghan remains loyal. Stupid and loyal.
She still believes Pm here to help the Bradleys. She
really believes I’m trying hard to save Fear Park.
Pm going to miss her, he thought. She’s pitiful. But
I’m going to miss her.
90

THE LAST SCREAM
Meghan startled him by jumping to her feet. “Why
ire you grinning?” she demanded sharply.
“Huh? Me?” He hadn’t realized that a smile had
wept over his face.
“You’re grinning!” she accused him.
“No. Really. ’m not.”
“You’re laughing at me—aren’t you!” she cried.
“You think I’m funny?” Her green eyes suddenly
slowed with anger.
“No, Meghan—stop,” he said calmly, motioning
with both hands for her to sit back down.
“You're still smirking!” she screeched.
“Meghan—”
She crossed the room, her fists balled at her sides.
Robin jumped to his feet. He raised his hands as if to
shield himself. He had seen her fiery temper before.
“You don’t take me seriously at all—do you, Rob-
in?” she cried, bumping up against him, nearly knock-
ing him back into his chair.
“Meghan, please—”
“You’ve been laughing at me this whole time. You
have no intention of doing what I ask. You’re never
going to let me escape from this horrible life—are
you? Are you?”
She didn’t wait for a reply. With a wild shriek she
raised both fists—and began to pound his chest.
“Get off? he cried. “Stop it! Stop it, Meghan!
Listen to me. I—”
“Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!” She shoved him hard.
Then she slapped his face.
“Qww!” He uttered a howl of pain and stumbled
back.
91

a
FEAR PARK
He struggled to catch his balance—but she slapped
him again.
He gasped as he saw a chunk of his skin fly off in her
hand.
“Sssstop!” he hissed furiously. “Pm warning
you—”
“No! No! No!” In her fury she grabbed at his other
cheek and snatched off another chunk of skin.
“My face!” Robin shielded himself with one arm.
“You're pulling off my face!”
“I don’t care!” Meghan wailed. “I don’t care! I
don’t care about anything anymore!”
She made a wild grab for him.
He ducked. Shovheer adway .
His arm shot back. Without thinking, he slammed a
fist into the side of her face.
“Oh!”
They both cried out in surprise. He had never hit
her before.
The force of his punch tore off a wide section of her
cheek. Gray bone poked out from the long skin tear.
“Aaaaiiiii!” With a shout of wild fury, she leapt on
him. Clawed at his face. Clawed frantically with both
hands.
Ripping off skin and flesh. Pulling off a chunk of his
chin. Tearati hins ngos e.
Groaning in pain, in horror, Robin threw both fists
up. One fist caught Meghan under the chin. The skin
tore off cleanly, revealing gray jawbone and a.line of
bottom teeth.
“Noooooo!” Meghan uttered a long, pained howi—
and sank her teeth deep into Robin’s throat.
92

THE LAST SCREAM
Grabbing, ripping, tearing at each other, they fell to
the floor, rolling over chunks of their own flesh as they
wrestandl feoudght .
What on earth are we doing? Robin wondered.
Are we goingt o tear each othtoe pierce s?
93

paPle,
19
1D eee new friend had told Dierdre
all she needed to know about Robin Fear.
Of course, Dierdre hadn’t believed it at first.
Who would believe such a wild story?
But now Dierdre was convinced. She believed it all.
Robin’s father, Nicholas Fear, had placed a curse
on the park. And Robin had made himself immortal.
Had stayed a teenager. Had become Dierdre’s friend.
Closer than a friend.
Robin had done all this to make sure that Nicholas
Fear’s curse was carried out. To make sure that Fear
Park closed so that the land would be returned to the
Fear family.
Dierdre stared at herself in her dresser mirror.
“You don’t look stupid,” she told herself sternly. “But
you are.”
She shook her head fretfully, watching her unhappy
94

ia
THE LAST SCREAM
reflection. “How could you let yourself be fooled by
him?” she scolded herself. ““How could you let your-
self get so close to him? You actually thought you were
in Jove with him!”
That thought made her cheeks redden.
“Stupid, stupid, stupid.”
Robin must think you’re the stupidest person on
earth.
I confided in him, Dierdre moaned to herself. I
trusted him. I belieivne hdim .
I kissed him. I cared about him.
And all the time he was plotting against me.
Plotting to destroy Daddy and me and ruin Fear
Park.
He’s a murderer. Robin is a cold, cold murderer.
So many lives lost. So many innocent lives .. .
He murdered children. He murdered young people.
He murdered people who had just come to the park
to have al ittlfeun .
Dierdre shuddered.
She had so many horrifying pictures in her mind,
pictures that would stay with her for the rest of her
life—all because of Robin Fear.
He doesn’t care about human life, she realized,
shivagaien. rAndi whny sghou ld he?
He’s fixed it so that he will live forever. Death has
no meanifonr ghim .
He doesn’t care who lives . . . who dies.
I was so stupid. So trusting and stupid.
And if her new friend hadn’t warned her .. .?
What would have happened?
95

4
FEAR PARK
Diesarnk dontor heer b ed.
What will happen? she wondered.
Is there any way to win this battle? Can Robin Fear
be defeated?
Or am Ig oingt o die too?
96

cnaPle,,
6¢
Pie still. Pm almost finished.”
Robin smoothed the skin over Meghan’s cheek with
two fingers. Then he brought his face close to hers and
studied his handiwork.
“How does it look?” Meghan asked softly.
Robin gave her the oval hand mirror. She raised it,
moved toward the bathroom light, and studied her
face.
“Like new.” She smiled.
“No—don’t smile!” Robin warned. “You'll crease
it. Give it time to dry.”
Meghan forced her lips to cooperate. She watched
her face grow completely expressionless. “It itches a
little,” she told him.
“It will probably itch until it’s dry,” he replied. He
took the hand mirror and studied his own face. He
tsk-tsked, shaking his head, watching himself in the
mirror.
97

3 4
FEAR PARK
“I’m not happy with this chin,” he murmured. “T
think it may be too long.”
Meghan turned and examined the chin. “It’s fine.
Listen . .. ” Her voice trailed off.
She brushed past him into the hallway. “I-—IPm
sorry,” she stammered.
“It’s okay,” he replied, still gazing at his new chin.
“[ didn’t mean tc cause you so much work,”
she continued. “I mean, I shouldn’t go berserk. It’s
just... well...”
“I understand,” Robin said curtly. He didn’t feel
like starting another discussion.
“I had to get you to listen to me,” Meghan said,
rubbing both cheeks gently with the backs of her
hands. “I had to let you see that I really mean it this
time.”
Robin nodded. “I promhei saisd, esta,ring” in to
the mirror. “I promise Pll reverse your immortality
spell—as soon as I can.”
“Robin—as soon as you can? What does that
mean?”
“J want to try one more time to help the Bradleys,”
he replied. “I want to try one more time to break the
curse.”
He lowered the mirror and turned to her. “You have
to understand, Meghan. All those people have died in
Fear Park. And I feel responIs meianb, lI keno.w it
wasn’t my fault. I know it was my father’s fault. But I
feel guilty all the same.”
He sighed. “And if there’s anything I can do to
break the curse—aatn ally—I’t'm hgoiingn tgo t ry
it.”
98

THE LAST SCREAM
He stared deeply into her green eyes, intent on
seeing if she still believheidm .
Yes!
She still believes me, he realized.
He kissed her forehead. The new skin hadn’t quite
dried. It felt sticky and moist against his lips.
“I’m sorry too,” he whispered. “We both lost
control. It was my fault too.”
She smiled. “I’m a pretty good wrestler,” she said.
“Too good!” he replied. With one final glance at the
repair job on his face, he stepped into the hallway and
heatdo hies droo m.
“Where are you going?” she called after him.
“To the park,” he told her. “This may be an
important night. A very important night.”
He pulled on a long-sleeved plaid shirt over his T-
shirt. He wiped a small chunk of skin off one knee of
his jeans. He had an idea.
Turning to the doorway, he saw Meghan watching
him, arms crossed in front of her. “Do you remember
a boy named Gary?” he asked casually.
She twisted her face, thinking. “Gary? From
when?”
“From our class. You know. Back in 1935.”
She tapped her chin. “Gary. Gary . . .” She sighed.
“It’s so hard to remember, Robin. My memory of
those days is so faded. It was so long ago. I can’t
remember.”
“Well, try,” he demanded sharply.
“Hmmmm.” She tapped her chin some more, her
eyes shut. “Yes,” she said finally. “There was a Gary.
Gary Barth.”
99

FEAR PARK .
“Gary Barth?” Robin struggled to remember him.
But no face came to mind.
“Yeah. Gary Barth,” Meghan said. “I reocenal
him now. He was very tall, very thin and lanky.”
“What color hair did he have?” Robin asked.
“Red hair,” she replied. “Long, straight red hair.
Down to his shoulders.”
“That’s him!” Robin cried. “That’s him!”
100

cnaPle,
Zt
“Vy
our father’s condirtemiainos nu n-
changed,” the nurse said in a low, flat tone. “We have
your phone number. We'll call you if there is any
change.
“Thank you,” Dierdre replied. “Good night.” She
replaced the receiver with a sigh. Then she propped
her elbows on her father’s desk and dejectedly rested
her head in her hands.
His condreimaitns iuncohannge d.
Is that good or bad? she wondered unhappily.
I guess it means Daddy isn’t getting any worse.
But why doesn’t he wake up? The doctors say they
cannot fully check him for brain damage until he
wakes up.
Dierdre swallowed hard, her throat dry, achy. What
if he never wakes up?
She sighed. Then, at least, he will never have to
know that all of his problems were caused by the Fear
101

: ee
FEAR PARK
family. He will never have to know that this park—
his dream—cvursweda fsro m the start.
A knock on the office trailer door made Dierdre
jump. She sat straight up, wheeled the desk chair
around to face the door. “Who is it?”
The door swung open. Robin Fear poked his head
in. “Busy?”
His smile made her want to throw up.
_ Without realizing it, she grabbed the silver letter
opener from the desk and gripped it tightly in her fist.
I'd like to plunge this through his heart, she thought.
Pd like to stab him through the heart and say, “This
is for what you ditdo m y father!” And-tshtaeb nhi m
again and again for all the people he killed here in the
He climbed into the trailer, still smiling. “You
okay? I asked if you were busy,” he said.
' How could I ever fall for him? Dierdre asked
herself. How could I ever Jove him? Just seeing him
makes me sick now.
“Yeah. Very busy,” she replied sharply. She turned
to the desk and shuffled some papers around.
“How about a short walk?” he asked. “Get some
fresh air. It’s a really pretty night.”
“Can’t,” she mumbled, shuffling papers, eyes on the
desk.
Where is Gary? she wondered. He promised to
meet me. He promisedto stay with mein, ca se...
“Come on, Dee.” Robin grabbed her arm gently.
“A short walk. Five minutes. I promise it will change
your mood.”
102

THE LAST SCREAM
His touch made her shudder. “My mood is okay,”
he replied coldly.
“Come on,” he insisted. His grip on her arm -
ightened. He slid his hands down and grabbed both
f her hands. And tugged. “Come on. A five-minute
valk.”
Let go of me! she thought.
Letg o of me!
She glanceudp . Caught the hard stare on his face.
So cold. So cold and hard.
What is he doing? she wondered, suddenly gripped
vith fear.
What is he going to do to me?
103

SnaPley,
22
€¢é
A short walk,” Robin repeated, dragging
Dierdre to the trailer door.
“Ow!” She cried out as she bumped her side on the
sharp corner of the desk.
He laughed. “Sorry.”
Dierdre wanted to reach down and rub her aching
side. But Robin wouldn’t let go of her hand.
What should I do? she asked herself. Should I
scream for help? That wouldn’t do much good. Pd
only look silly. How could I convince anyone I am in
real danger?
Should I scream at Robin? Force him to let go of
me? Tell him ’'m never walking with him again?
No. I don’t want him to know that I know the truth
about him.
And I definitely don’t want to make him any
angrier.
Maybe [Id better take the walk with him, Dierdre
104

THE LAST SCREAM
decided. After all, Pll be a lot safer in the middle of a
crowd. I'll be a lot safer in public than alone in this
traiwilthe hrim .
“Okay. I’m coming. I’m coming!” she cried, forcing
herself to sound playful. “You just won’t take no for
an answweillr y,ou! ”
Robin laughed. “No way.” He helped her down the
trailer steps.
She followed him into a cool, clear night. Slender
wisps of black clouds snaked across a low half moon.
The air carried the aroma of fresh-popped popcorn.
Dierdre took a deep breath. She felt Robin’s eyes on
her, so she forced a smile. She glanced quickly
around, searching for Gary.
Where is he? Where is he? He promised he’d be
here.
Robin took her hand. He brought his face close to
hers. “This way,” he said sofily.
She reluctantly allowed him to lead her. As they
walked, holding hands, she studied his face, trying to
read his thoughts.
What is he planning?
Staring hard at him, Dierdre thought something
looked different about him. Was it his eyes? The
smoothness of his skin? His expression? Something
had changed.
Gary, whearre eyou ? she wondered, feeling her
stomach knot up. How could you leave me alone with
him?
“Where are we going?” She tried to keep her voice
steady. But the words came out tense and strained.
105

FEAR PARK *
“Just for a walk,” he replied coyly. “Don’t you like -
to walk with me anymore?”
She forced herself to squeeze his hand. “Of course I
do,” she cooed.
I can’t let him know that I know everything about
him.
I can’t let him know. He’ll kill me too. 1 know he
will.
If he doesn’t already plan to do that right now .. .
She shivered.
He turned to her, suspicion in his eyes. “Are you
feeling okay? You keep shivering.”
She shrugged. “Yeah. [I’m fine. It’s kind of chilly
tonight.”
His dark eyes remained locked on hers. His smile
faded. “Is there anything you want to tell me? Any-
thing you want to talk about?”
She shook her head. “No. Really. P’'m just... you
know ... sO worried about my dad.”
Robin nodded solemnly. “Any word from the hos-
pital? Any news?”
“No.” Dierdre sighed. “He’s the same. He hasn’t
woken up.”
Dierdre was shocked by the smile that crossed
Robin’s face. He isn’t even trying to hide his true
feelings! she realized. He isn’t even pretending to be
concerned.
What does this mean?
She glanced nervously around. They were on the
trail that led to the animal preserve. Sinthce epre -
serve was Closed at night, the path was dimly lit and
nearly empty. No one else in sight.
106

THE LAST SCREAM
Why is he leading me here, where there are no
eople? Dierdre wondered. I don’t want to go this
vay. | don’t want to be all alone with him.
She took a deep breath. Turned quickly. And
tarttoe rdun .
107

cnaPlep
66
Ehe=eeeon eee
Where is she going? he wondered. Does she really
think she can run away from me?
He hesitated for a second, watching her run. Then
he took off after her, his sneakers thudding hard on
path.
She knows everythhei rnealgiz,ed .
I can see it on her face. In her icy stares. I can hear
it in her voice.
Gary told her everything. She knows the truth. The
truth about me, about my father’s curse, about why I
am here.
She knows I will not rest until Fear Park is de-
stroyed.
She knows she is helpless against me.
So why is she running? Why can’t she accept her
fate? Why won’t she close the park—and save her
own life?
108

THE LAST SCREAM
He saw her turn onto the main walkway. Red, blue,
nd yellow lights glowed from the trees overhead. A
vash of color made the park brighter than daylight.
Robin wanted to stay in the darkness near the
nimal preserve. He didn’t want to go this way.
As he ran after Dierdre, the lights seemed to swirl
rohuim, nmakidng the food stands and game booths
pin and tilt.
He blinked and sucked in a deep breath, trying to
ay his balance. “Dierdre?” he called to her breath-
y.
She kept running, pushing her way through a group
yf young men on their way to the shooting gallery. She
lidn’t turn back.
“Dierdre?”
The bright lights burned his eyes.
Out of control, he thought. I feel so out of control
onight.
It’s all slipping away, he thought unhappily. His
hest felt tight. An aching pain made him gasp.
It’s slipping away. I suddenly feel so old.
The lights. The crowd. The laughing, happy people.
It’s all wrong. All wrong, Dierdre.
[’ve let this go on too long. And I know why, Robin
Jecided. It’s because I’m weak. I let myself fall for
Dierdre. I didn’t want her to die. I cared about her. I
eally did.
And because of her I let you down, Dad.
Because of her I let the park open. I didn’t destroy
t, burn it to the ground, blow it away.
As the lights flashed in his eyes, as the game booths
ited and swirled around him, Robin pictured his
109

FEAR PARK nihil
é
father. Nicholas Fear. So tall, so ramrod-straight, so
stern. :
Nicholas Fear would never have let this go on so
long, Robin knew.
Nicholas Fear would have wiped the Bradley
family—including Dierdre—off the face of the earth
and then sat down to a good dinner.
But Robin was weak. Robin had feelings. Feelings
that interfered with his promise to his father, his
solemn vow to return the park land to the Fear family,
its rightful owners.
Pve failed you, Dad, Robin thought unhappily. The
pain in his chest burned stronger. His legs felt weak
and tired. Each wheezing breath made his lungs ache.
Pve failed you—up till now.
Pm not an evil person, Robin told himself. Yes, ’'ve
doevnil tehin gs. But only to keep my promise to you,
Dad. But only to keep my vow to the Fear family, my
family.
Pve tried to be a good son, Dad. Pve tried to do
what you would do if you were here.
Pve done evil things. But only to gain back what is
rightfully ours. Everything I’ve done has been for the
sake of justice.
Right, Dad? Right?
Sweat poured down Robin’s forehead. Each breath
sent a sharp pain to his chest.
I won’t fail you, Dad, he vowed to himself. I
promise. Pve been weak. But I won’t fail you now.
All of these thoughts raced through Robin’s mind as
he chased Dierdre down the brightly lit walk, darting
110

THE LAST SCREAM
etween startled people, ducking around strollers and
rouopf ksids .
He saw Dierdrsteop , caught betwae greounp o f
ughing teenagers and the side of a small food stand.
Jith a final burst of energy, Robin dove for her.
He grabbed both shoulders and pinned her against
1¢ wall.
She stared at him, terror in her eyes. Her chest
eaved as she gasped for breath. The red, blue, and
eliow lights playeovder her frightened face.
No more talk, he decided. No more games. No
1ore questions.
Well, actually, I have only one last question.
How shall I kill her?

nePle,
24
Now iat? Dickens axed en
whaNotw ?wha t?
She let out a gasp as he pushed her back against the
wall of the food stand.
I was stupid, she scolded herself. No way could |
outrun him. Besides, where is there to run?
Wherever I ran in this park, he would find me.
She swallowed hard, her throat tight and dry. She
sucked in breath after breath, thinking frantically
trying to decide how to save herself.
Raising her eyes to his, she forced out a shrill laugh
“Beat you!” she declared. She grinned at him, stil
breathing hard.
She saw his cold, dark eyes soften just a little. Saw
quesotn ihios fnac e.
“You run like an old woman!” she teased.
His mouth dropped open. His eyes probed hers
“Do not!” he protested.
112

THE LAST SCREAM
She forced another laugh. “Yeyosu ,do. ”
You are old, she thought.
I know you are. I know the whole story, Robin.
But she didn’t want to think about that now. She
knew she was in danger. Real danger. She knew she
had to find a way to get away from him. She had to
stall him.
“That felt good,” Dierdre said, brushing back her
hair with both hands. “I’ve been cooped up all day. I
just felt like running.”
Is he buying it? she wondered.
Keep it light, she instructed herself. And just stall
him. Stall him until Gary shows up.
He finally let go of her. He wiped sweat off his
forehead with the palm of his hand.
“It wasn’t a fair race,” Robin complained. “You
had too big a heads tart.”
Dierdre glanced around, thinking hard. Howdo I
stall him? How?
Thes igonn th e front of the food stand caught her
eye. “I'm suddenly so starving!” she exclaimed.
“Really?” His dark eyes still studied her uncer-
“How about some cotton candy?” she asked, start-
ing toward the front of the stand. “I’ve been smelling
it all night. It’s hard to resist, isn’t it?”
Robin hesitated. “Well . . .”
“Come on. Have some cotton candy. We'll share
one,” Dierdre urged, forcing herself to sound playful.
Forcing herselft os mile at him despite her fear. “My
treat,” she added.
113

FEAR PARK ?
“Uh... why don’t you have one? Ill just take a
tasRtobien ,rep”lie d.
They moved to the front of the stand. Therwaes n o
line, so Dierdre stepped up and asked for a cone of
cotton candy.
The young woman behind the counter moved to the
cotton candy machine. She picked up a cone of white
paper and began twirling it under the spinning pink
sugar.
Dierdre watched the ball of cotton candy begin to
form. Then she turned and searched the crowded
walkfwora Gyary .
No sign of him. Did he forget?
Did somethaphpein tno ghim ?
Robin eyed her warily. He stood close behind her,
as if afraid she might turn and run again.
The young woman handed Dierdre the cone of
cotton candy. The sweet aroma floated up to Dierdre.
She reached for her wallet. “How much? A dollar?”
“No charge for you, Miss Bradley,” the young
woman replied.
Oh. That’s right. I own this park, Dierdre remem-
bered. She thanked her and lowered her face to the
stipicnkk cayndy .
She let the sweet taste slide down her tongue. Then
ane Puliod OfA tami aid anette oe es
melted as soon as it hit her tongue.
Like magic, Dierdre thought. It’s like spun magic. It
just disapwhpen eyoau troucsh i t.
Beside her, Robin cleared his throat. She turned
and saw him murmuring to himself, his face half
hidden.
114

THE LAST SCREAM
I wish I could touch him and make him disappear,
Dierdre thought. I wish I could make him melt.
Disappear forever.
Why was he suddenly talking to himself?
And where did this purple smoke come from? It
appeared to swirl around them from the sides of the
food stand.
Where’s Gary? Taking another bite of the sticky
pink sugar, Dierdre stepped away from the stand.
Robin guided her back to the side wall.
She held out the cone to him. “Taak biete, ” she
said forcing her voice to stay calm.
He ignored her. She saw his lips moving. Was he
singing to himself?
“Robin, what are you doing?” she demanded. “I
thought you wanted a taste.”
She searched for Gary. Her heart skipped when she
thought she saw him hurrying from the video game
arcade toward her. But she quickly saw that it was
another red-haired boy.
Not Gary...
What am I going to do? she wondered, feeling her
muscles—all of her muscles—tighten in panic. I’ve
got to keep stalling. Got to stall.
The purple smoke swirled thicker. It must be escap-
ing from the Hatchet Show, Dierdre thought. They
used a lot of purple smoke like this in the arena where
the popular show was performed three times a night.
The thought of the kids in the show pretending to
hatchet one another to bits made Dierdre shudder.
So much violence. So much violence on this land,
on these acres that once were quiet, untouched woods.
115

FEAR PARK ¢
And now she herself faced such danger—from this
boy—this old man—this Fear.
She had to stall him. Had to pray that Gary would
find her. Had to hope that Gary could somehow chase
Robin off.
Dierdre shoved the cone playfully toward Robin’s
face. “Go on. Take a taste. It’s strawberry. It’s great.”
Robin’s hand shot up to push the cone away. The
sticky pink ball of candy smashed into Dierdre’s face.
Startled, she let out a cry. The sugar stuck to her
cheeks. Her nose. “You creep!” she cried lightly,
playfully.
She laughed.
I’ve got to pretend [’'m having a good time, she
thought. Got to stall him.
She stopped laughwihenn gsh e felt the stickpiyn k
stuff tigohvetr heer nfac e. “Hey!” She tried to cry out.
But the candy spread over her mouth, gluing her lips
together. “Hey—mmmmmph!”
What is happening? Dierdre wondered. She
grabbed at the pink candy with both hands. But it
so to her cheeks, her chin, her lips. She couldn’t tug
it off.
The purple smoke billowed up, forming a purple
curtain around her, holding her inside its dark mists.
What is happening?
She clawed frantically, clawed with both hands at
the cotton candy as it spread over her mouth, over her
nose, over her eyes.
And as it spread, it tightened.
It squeezed her lips shut. And tightened over her
nose. Growing heavier. Thicker.
116

THE LAST SCREAM
“Help me!” she tried to scream. But the words
came out in a groan, muffled beneath the thick, sticky
Z00.
Now she was tearing at it wildly. Tearing at the
blanket of sticky pink candy. Tearing at her cheeks.
Strutog pugll lit oiff nherg nos e.
She couldn’t cry out. Couldn’t open her mouth.
It pinched her face. Tightened around her chin.
She felt the sticky goo pushing into her nostrils.
She tried to blow out. Tried to pull it away from her
nose.
But it covered her. Covered her. Covered her.
Slidupi henr gnos e. Spreading stickily.
“I'll go get help!” she heard Robin cry.
She squiinton thte puerplde f og. He had turned
away from her and was running away.
“Don’t move!” She couldsnee’ htim . But she heard
his voice. “Don’t move, Dierdre! I'll get help!”
I—I can’t breathe, Dierdre realized.
She dropped to her knees. Her hands still clawed
desperately at the thick, sticky covering over her face.
It filhlere ndose . Covered her nostrPirelsssed. i n
on her face. Pinched and spread and stuck.
Can’t breathe . . .
Can’t breathe...
117

naPlep,
25
66
li get help!” Robin called. He knew
Dierdre couldn’t see the broad smile on his face. _
He ducked around the side of a game booth and
crouched down, watching her struggle. Even through
the swirls of purple fog, he could see her desperately
grabbing at the mask of candy, clawing at her face,
choking and gasping.
She dropped to her knees, frantically pulling at the
thickening g00. .
Robin’s smile faded. “Goodbye, Dierdre,” he mur-
mured out loud.
In a few seconds she would be dead.
He tried to keep his mind clear. Tried to concen-
trate on the spell he had conjured.
But other thoughts, other pictures, forced their way
into his mind.
He remembered her kisses. He remembered the
118

THE LAST SCREAM
yftness of her cheeks. He remembered the electric
yuch of her hands on his face.
The shock of conflicting emotions nearly burst him
1 two. His throat ached. His temples throbbed.
She has to die.
He knew she had to die. But he also wanted to keep
er with him, to keep her alive.
He realized he was feeling many of the same
motions as sixty years ago—when he had to bring
feghwitah nhim .
He cared about Meghan so much back then. He
ouidn’t let her die with the other kids. He had to
eep her alive with him—forever.
He wished he could do the same for Dierdre now.
ut of course he couldn’t.
He had to let the cotton candy smother her. He had
) finish what he had started.
He squinted through the purple fog. Dierdre was
lumped on her knees. No longer clawing. No longer
ruggling.
No longer breathing, Robin was certain.
Waiting to die.
Robin held his breath. Waiting along with her.
Vatching.
Watching as a figure burst across the walk. .
A famfiigurle. Tialla anrd le an. Bending down to
dierdre.
Gary?
Yes. Robin recognized him, even through the swirls
f smoke.
What did he hold in his hand?
119

FEAR PARK q
A large cup. Of soda? Of water?
“Nooo!” Robin let out a cry of protest. He ea
to his feet and plunged across the walkway.
Too late.
He saw Gary splash thed rink onD ierdre’s face.
Saw Dierdre’s hands fly up. Saw her wiping away,
the thick layer of cotton candy.
The drink will melt it, Robin knew. _
The spell will not hold under a splash of water.
The water will dissolve the mask of candy.
The purple smoke faded into the dark ground.
Robin could see Dierdre clearly now. Could see the
smile on her face. Could see the pink stains of candy
on her cheeks as she took breath after breath.
Gary stood beside her, the empty drink cup still
gripped in his hand.
Dierdre wiped more goo from her face. Brushed
back her hair. And then she rushed forward with a
joyful cry—and wrapped her arms around Gary.
His heart pounding, his temples pulsing, Robin
froze, watching them hug.
No—this can’t be happening. I was so close. So
close. I don’t believe this is happening.
I don’t believe this boy has ruined things for me
Robin took a deep breath and made his way across
the walk to them. “Dierdre—you’re okay?” he cried.
She pulled away from Gary. The two of them stared
at him, their expressions wary.
“I—I was so frightened!” Robin exclaimed. “Oh,
thank goodness. I tried to get help. But I couldn’t find
anyone. [—”
120

THE LAST SCREAM
He stopped and stared at Gary. Gary had his arm
thtly wrapped around Dierdre’s waist.
“Dierdre?” Robin cried, staring accusingly at Gary.
Who's this? Who is this?”
121

cnPle,
hee stepped up to Gary, challenging
him. He saw a flash of fear in Gary’s eyes.
Are they brave enough to tell me the truth? Robir
wondered, staring Gary down.
I already know the truth about Gary. But are they
brave enough to admit it? Or are you an eighty-year-.
old coward, Gary?
Gary opened his mouth to answer Robin’s ques
tion. But Dierdre stepped between them and spoke
first. “Uh ... well... Robin .. .” She kept glancing
tensely at Gary, standing in front of him as if protect
ing him.
“This is Gary,” she said finally. “P’ve been meanin;
to tell you about Gary, Robin.”
“Oh, really?” Robin replied, his eyes on Gary.
“You see,” she started again, “Gary and I—w
used to go together. I mean. Last year. But we sort 0
had a stupid fight. And we broke up.”
122

THE LAST SCREAM
‘I see,” Robin murmured.
“But now Gary is back,” Dierdre continued. “And
sort of ... well... got back together. Pve been
saning to tell you about it, Robin. ReallIy kn.o w
u must think I’ve been acting weird lately. I—I—
tt didn’t want to hurt you. See?”
Yes, I see, Robin thought bitterly.
[ see that you’re a total liar, Dierdre.
He turned his gaze from Gary to Dierdre, then back
Gary. Gary nodded his head, as if to say that he
reed with Dierdre.
You’re both liars, Robin thought, feeling the rage
ild inside him.
“I see,” he muttered to Dierdre. He lowered his
88, pretending to be hurt. “I thought that you and
..” He let his voice trail off sadly.
“I didn’t want to hurt you,”’ Dierdre repeated. “But
ry and I—we . . . well .. . we’ve known each oth-
for a long time.”
Liar!
Robin wanted to spit the word in her face.
Do you think I’m stupid, Dierdre? Do you think I
uld live eighty years and be as stupid as that?
Don’t you think I’m smart enough to figure out the
ith?
You and Gary didn’t go together last year. Because
ry is as old as I am. Gary comes from the 1930s
. Gary is here to ruin my plans. You’ve been acting
ird, Dierdre, because Gary told you all about me.
But the two of you are too afraid to tell the truth.
And you’ve got reason to be.
“I see,” Robin said softly, doing his best to act
123

FEAR PARK — EN
disappointed and upset. “Weill, Pm glad you’re okay
When you started to choke, I guess I panicked. Pn
really sorry.” 2
“That’s okay,” Dierdre replied, glancing at Gary
He still had his arm wrapped around her waist.
“Well .. . see you later,” Robin said. He gave her:
shrug, as if to signal that he was too upset to say more
Then he turned and headed slowly toward the fron
gate.
I know you’re an immortal, Gary, Robin thought
But there must be a way that immortals can be killed
And I plan to find that way tonight. |
And once you’re no longer around to protec
Dierdre, it will be easy to kill her too. And close Fea
Park down for good.
The thought of going into his library and browsin
through the old books to find a spell to kill Gar
cheered Robin up. He had a smile on his face all th
way home.
Robin planned to stay up all night, reading throug
the ancient books in his library. But to his surprise, h
found the spell he was looking for in the very fir
book.
A stack of dusty books had been left on the table
Robin had picked up the book on top of the stack.
And near the back he had found the spell. Accor¢
ing to the book, this was the only known spell to en
the life of someone who had been made immortal.
Robin stared at the spell in shock. What buck! h
thought. To find what I’m looking for so easily.
124

THE LAST SCREAM
His eyes drifted over the page. He squinttoe rdea d
e tiny type on the cracked and yellowed paper.
He stopped at a paragraph near the beginning and
ad the words twice, carefully making sure he under-
90d. It told him that an immortal cannot be killed
y anyone living. An immortal can be killed only by
e dead.
And the dead person must be someone the immor-
| knew.
Someone the immortal knows...
Who did Gary know back in 1935? Robin won-
red.
He closed his eyes and thought hard. After a while
- knew what he had to do.
I will bring back all the kids who died hatcheting
e another to death. At least one of them had to
iow Gary.
I don’t remember any of their names. It’s been so
any years.
But I can bring them all back. Back from the dead.
And using this spell, I can instruct them to kill
ary. To bring Gary back to the world of the dead
ith them.
Robin read the spell carefully. Then he read it
ain, thinking hard. Thinking about how to make it
ork.
Bringing so many kids back from the dead was
ky.
Would he be able to control them? Would they obey
m and kill Gary?
According to the book, he could control them
125

a
FEAR PARK
easily. The spell gave him the words that made him
their master.
Leaniovnerg th e big book, Robin whispered the
words, practicing them, rehearsing them. It wasa
difficult spell. It requai lort oef sdkil l.
As Robin whispteher ewordds , learntion pgro -
nouneacch eon e, he heard a shuffling at the library
door. Then a mufiled cough.
I know you’re there, Meghan, he thought. Raising
his eyes to the door, he saw her shadow lean across the
floor.
I know you’re outside the door, spying on me.
But don’t worry, my dear Meghan. I haven’t forgot-
ten you.
I have plans for you too.
He set the trap for Meghan at breakfast the next
morning.
“You know, I think Pve been neglecting you,”
Robin said, pouring himself a cup of coffee.
“Yes, you have,” Meghan replied softly. She wore a
blue robe over her pajamas. Her face was still creased
from sleep. Tangles of red hair fell over the shoulders
of the robe.
_ She set down her coffee cup and stared intently
across the table at him, waiting for him to continue.
“I think you should get out more,” Robin contin-
ued. Hes tirar teeaspdoo n of suginator t he
coffee. “Why don’t you meet me at the park tonight.”
Her mouth opened in a small O of surprise. “At the
park?”
Robin nodded. “I want to show you something. I
126

THE LAST SCREAM
think you'll find it interesting.” He continued to stir
the coffee, his dark eyes locked on hers. “Meemet a t
the Hatchet Show.”
“Huh? The show?” Her voice was still hoarse from
sleep. She made a disgusted face. “Robin—you know
I hate that show.”
“I know,” Robin started. “But tonight—”
“It brings back so many horrible memories,”
Meghan continued, lowering her eyes to her coffee
cup. She rubbed at a stain on the red-checkered
tablecloth.
“Meghan, it happened over sixty years ago,” Robin
scolded. “An entire lifetime ago.”
“I know that,” she replied sharply. “But to me it
seems like yesterday.” She sighed and brushed a
strand of hair off her face. “You should understand
that, Robin. You should understand that by now.”
“I do,” he protested. “But—”
“Those kids were my friends. 1 knew most of them
for my wholleif e. And I stood there, stood there in the
woods and watched my friends go into a frenzy. I
watched them hack and chop one another to bits. I—
ll never forget the sight of the blood soaking the
round. So much blood. The ground was red, Robin.
Red! All this time, and I can’t get that picture out of
my mind.”
“I know,” Robin said softly. He stood up, crossed
‘o her side of the table, and tenderly placed his hand
mn her shoulder. “I know.”
“It just makes me sick that they act out that scene
svery night in the park,” Meghan continued, shaking
ier head. “For entertainment. For entertainment.”
127

FEAR PARK 4
She turned her face to him, her expression accusing.
“Your father cast that spell—didn’t he? Your father
made those kids murder one another—right? We’ve
never talked about it. All these years, and I never
wanted to ask you. But it’s true, isn’t it, Robin?”
Robin swallowed hard. He nodded solemnly. “Yes,
it’s truehe, l”ied .
Robin knew very well that he himself had cast the
spell. But he would never confess that to Meghan. No
need. Meghan wasn’t going to exist after tonight.
“And that’s why you feel so guilty,” Meghan said,
taking his hand from her shoulder and pressing it
gently between her hands. “That’s why you’ve worked
so hard to protect the Bradleys. That’s why you’ve
sshabanip nioniemisabe ines arming Shp e
curse—isn’ti t,R obin?”
“Yes,” he told her. “Thathte ’trusth. ”
He wanted to laugh out loud. Laugh in her face.
How could she have lived with him for sixty years
and never guessed the truth?
“Will you meet me tonight?” he asked in a whisper,
leaning over her, his lips brushing her ear. “Will you
meet me at the show tonight? I really want to show
you something, I really think you will want to see it.”
She thought about it for a long while. Then she
finally replied with a whispered “Okay.”
A smile spread across Robin’s face.
One down and two to go, he thought happily.
Now if I can get Dierdre and Gary to join us there,
it will be an unforgettable night—for everyone!
128

8m
gnaPle,
27°
io knocked on the trailer door.
Then, without waiting for a reply, pulled the door
open and stepped inside.
The afternoon sun beamed down brightly. The
trafiellt seteram y inside, the air hot and stale. Robin
blinked, waiting for his eyes to adjust to the dim light,
and saw Dierdre turn from her father’s desk.
She wore a sleeveless blue T-shirt over white tennis
shorts. Her brown hair was pulled back, a ponytail at
he side held in plawitch ae bl ue hair scrunchie.
“Robin?” She didn’t hide her surprise at seeing
nim.
“I just came to see how you are,” he said. “You're
kay?”
She nodded. “Yes. Fine.”
“I mean, that was so scary last night,” he added
nnocently. “When you started to choke .. .”
“Pm never eating. cotton candy again,” Dierdre
129

FEAR PARK 2
“It was weird. It clung to my face and
wouldn’t come off. I really thought I'd suffocate.”
“Pm so glad you’re okay,” Robin lied, pleased with
how sinchee soruneded .
“Nice of you to stop by,” she said stiffly. She turned
to the papers on the cluttered desk. “I really can’t talk
now. I hatvo weork .”
“fgelt gloing ,” Robin replied. “I just wantedt o
say...uh... no hard feelings.”
She narrowed her eyes at him. “Excuse me?”
“About Gary, I mean,” Robin said, lowering his
gaze to the floor.
“Oh. Right,” Dierdre replied awkwardly. He heard
the coldness slip back into her voice.
“I hope we can still be friends,” Robin said softly.
Dierdre muttered a reply. He couldhenar’ wtha t
she said.
“How long have you known Gary?” he asked. He
wanted to see her squirm, wanted to force her to think
fast.
“Since grade school,” she replied quickly.
Liar, he thought, not changing his expression. 7
There are two liars in this trailer right now,
DieRrobidn wranteed ,to s ay. Tomorronoe wof, u s
wible dlea d.
Tomorrow this trailer will have a padlock on it. In
fact, the whole park will have a padlock on it. And a
sign that reads CLOSED FOREVER.
He started to the door. Then stopped and turned
back to her. “Do me a favor?”
She frowned. “I don’t know .. .”
130

THE LAST SCREAM
“Meet me tonight? At the Hatchet Show? The eight
clock show?”
“Huh? Are you serious?”
“I want you to see something,” Robin said eagerly.
“You'll be amazed. Really. And bring Gary.”
“Gary?”
He could see the confusion on her face. Confusion
“Just come,” he urged, flashing her his best smile.
‘You and Gary. To the eight o’clock show. It’s the last
avor Pll ever ask you. I promise.”
131

naPle,
Dre and Gary arrivaet dth e outdoor
theaat tten eto reig ht. Dierdre led him to a seat in the
front row.
“Why are we doing this?” Gary demanded.
Dierdre squeezed his hand. “I already told you,”
she replied impatiently. “Robin wants to show us
something.”
“But he isn’t even here,” Gary protested, glancing
to the entrance.
“Just wait,” Dierdre instructed.
She cast her eyes around the small theater. It was
nearly empty, she saw. A group of teenagers huddled
togeint thhe teopr ro w. There were maybe twenty or
thirty other people scattered around the rest of the
theater.
Low clouds overhead blocked the moon and threat-
ened rain. In the far distance she could see jagged
streaks of pale lightning flickering in the clouds.
132

THE LAST SCREAM
The threatening weather had kept people home.
The entire park was nearly deserted.
Dierdre’s stomach felt fluttery. Her hands were cold
ind wet. She stuffed them into the pockets of her
thorts and slumped low in the seat beside Gary.
Let’s get this over with, she thought nervously.
Band music from the 1930s blared from the loud-
speakers overhead. Purple spotlights beamed over the
‘ows of tree stumps that dotted the ground.
Soon the actors would come out, she knew. Teenag-
ts dressed in clothes from the 1930s. They would
alk and laugh, and then set to work, chopping at the
ree stumps with their axes, clearing the ground for
“ear Park.
And then the music would swell, and the eerie
urple smoke would swirl over the theater. And the
eenage work crew would go into its frenzy, hacking
ind chopping at one another. Chopping off arms and
egs. Loppoiffn hegads . Spitlhe flakei blnoodg ov er
he ground. Horrifying the audience, giving everyone
he sick thrills they all came to see.
Dierdre craned her neck and gazed toward the
heater entrance. Whewars Reobi n?
She glanced at her watch. Five to eight.
—Whewras ehe ?
“This is dumb,” Gary complained. His eyes were
m the thickening storm clouds so low overhead. “It’s
oingt o rain. We’re going to get drenched.”
“Just relax,” Dierdre pleaded. “Robin wanted to
how us—”
She stopped when she saw Robin enter the theater.
fis eyes moved along the mostly empty seats until he
133

FEAR PARK 3
spotted Gary and her. He smiled and guided his
friend toward them, waving to Dierdre.
“This is Meghan,” he said breathlessly. “Meghan,
this is Gary and Dierdre.”
“Robin has told me a lot about you,” Meghan said
awkwartod Dilerydre . She sat down next to Dierdre.
Still smiling, Robin lowered himself to the seat at the
end of the row.
He certainly seems excited, Dierdre told herself,
studying Robin. He’s practically ready to burst!
She leaned across Meghan to talk to Robin. “Why
did you make us come here?” she demanded.
Robin’s smile grew wider. “You'll see.”
“This show is so sick,” Gary commented.
Robin laughed loudly, as if Gary had cracked a
really funny joke.
I’ve never seen Robin so psyched! Dierdre thoustil
He keeps staring from Gary to me to Meghan, and his
smile gets wider and wider.
“Its sad, really,” Meghan said seriously.
“It’s sad that people love watching this kind of
thing,” Gary agreed.
Dierdre didn’t say anything. Watching Robin’s glee-
ful excitement, she suddenly felt sick. She swallowed
hard, struggling to keep her dinner down. Her cold
hands shoved deep in her pockets, she took a deep
breath and held it.
The lights dimmed. The music boomed louder.
Dierdre shut her eyes as the purple smoke floated
up from the ground. She swallowed again. Her mouth |
felt dry as cotton.
When she opened her eyes, the actors were ——
Ee

THE LAST SCREAM
heir way through the billowing smoke onto the field
f tree stumps. The field stretched in darkness. The
erfowerre smhadeowyr fisgur es, moviin tnwosg a nd
hrees, axes on their shoulders.
Dierdre turned to glance at her companions. Gary
jas slumped deep in his seat, his knees on the low
oncrete wall in front of them. Megshat atennsel y,
er back straight, her hands folded tightly in her lap.
Robin leaned forward eagerly, smiling, excited. His
ps were moving rapidly, Dierdre saw. As if he were
inging or talking to himself.
Thick clouds of purple smoke floated over the
1eater. The music throbbed. The sound vibrated off
1€ concrete walls and the empty seats.
The teenage workers were still hidden in darkness.
hey moved slowly together, murmuring, laughing
uietly. A few of them took practice swings with their
KES.
Dierdre sighed, eager for the lights to come up and
le performance to start. She felt a cold shiver run
own her back.
She turned once again to Robin. He leaned practi-
iliy into the field area. He had his elbows on the low
mcrete wall. His head propped in his hands.
His face was half hidden by his hands. But she
yuld see his lips moving, see the tight look of
mecentration on his face.
Dierdre forced herself to turn back to the field. The
fethead spotlights brightened, cutting through the
yirls of smoke.
The music grew softer.
The lights grew brighter. Brighter. Bright as day.
135

FEAR PARK F
And then the teenage workers all turned. All turned
at once to face the audience. ;
Dierdre gasped.
She heard loud gasps and cries all around.
She saw Gary’s mouth drop open and his eyes
bulge.
She saw Meghan raise her hands to her head and
tug at her hair, her features twisted in shock. .
And then, staring at the faces . . . the faces . . . the
hideous faces on the field...Gary, Meghan,
Dierdre—they ail began to scream in horror.
136

cnaPle,,
29
6¢€
4F o not actors!” Dierdre heard
herself scream. “They’re not actors!”
Gary let out a cry of pain.
Dierdre glanced down. Saw that she was squeezing
his arm. Squeeizti son hgard . It took real effort to let
go.
“Nooooo! Noooooo!” Beside her, Meghan tugged
at the sides of her hair and moaned in horror.
The teenagers on the field staggered and lurched
toward the seats. Dragging themselves into the light.
The bright lights. So bright Dierdre could see every
detail of their decaying faces.
She could see the rotting green skin. The dark,
empty scockets that had once held eyes.
She could see the worms curling out of the open
nostrils. The swarms of bugs crawling from the holes
where the ears had been.
137

FEAR PARK &2.
The matted hair. The gaping rips and holes in the
scalp where gray bone poked through.
And the smell!
The foul, putrid, sour smell. The smell of dead,
rotting meat. Of insects and decay...
Clutching Gary again, trembling in fear, trembling,
every muscle quivering, her jaw bouncing, out of
control..o.u t of control... gasping... gasping
for breath .. . Dierdre stared as the teenagers stag-
gered closer.
“They’re not actors! They’re not actors!” She
couldn’t stop shrieking the words. She couldn’t let go
of Gary.
They’re dead, Dierdre knew.
They’re really dead.
They look dead. They smell dead. They move so
stiffly, so painfully, as if they haven’t moved in sixty
years!
The dead figures dragged themselves across the
field, moving in a ragged line. Side by side.
An arm fell off a boy’s shoulder and bounced
heavily on the ground.
Worms dropped from a girl’s nose and ears as she
moved closer. The flesh of one leg had rotted away,
the exposed bones creaking as she hobbled.
A head fell off. It landed on its jaw near a tree
stump. The body kept moving, dragging itself on with
slow, painful, shuffling steps.
Closer, they staggered.
Gary jumped to his feet. Dierdre could see his legs
shaking. He stood unsteadily, but didn’t try to walk
away or run.
138

THE LAST SCREAM
Frozen in horror. Gary is frozen in horror, Dierdre
irealized.
Holding her breath, trying to shut out the putrid
odor, Dietrurnedd rto Reobi n. He hadn’t moved. He
(leaned toward the approaching dead, his lips moving
ment. So thrilled.
Closer they came. Dragging themselves. Staggering.
Some of them headless or armless, crawling now.
And then Dierdre saw Meghan open her mouth in a
ishriek of terror.
“They—they’re coming for us!” Meghan cried.
“‘They’re coming for us!”
139

cnaDle,,
)F e hands reached out toward
them.
Rotted heads rolled on shoulders. Toothless mouths
opened in ugly groans. Bugs crawled down chins and
in the empty eye sockets.
“They're coming for us!” Meghan wailed. “For us!”
Dierdre sucked in a mouthful of sour air and held
it. She struggled to stop trembling, to stop her muscles
from quivering, her whole body from shaking.
The dead figures reached out. Leaned over the low
concrete wall. Reached out with their green, rotted
hands. .
Turned with low groans from deep inside their
hollow chests.
Turned.
And grabbed Robin.
Grabbed him. Pulled him. Tugged Robin over the
wall.
140

THE LAST SCREAM
Robin’s hands shot up. Dierdre saw his eyes bulge
wide.
“Hey!” was all he managed to cry.
And then he was down on his elbows and knees on
ithe grass.
The dead kids pulled him down and held him,
grinning toothless grins, gaping holes where lips had
once been.
They held him down. And Dierdre saw the axes
raised.
Saw the axes raised so slowly, so painfully.
And then the axes began to swing down.
The dead kids took turns. They brought the axes
down one at a time.
The first swing sliced off Robin’s head.
The next dead teenager chopped deeply into
Robin’s back.
Another swing cut off Robin’s right arm.
Robin’s body twitched and shuddered.
The blades fell. Again. Again.
Again again again.
A singing, whistling sound. Followed each time by a
solid thunk.
They didn’t stop their silent, steady work until they
aad chopped Robin to tiny bits of meat and bone.
And then a joyous roar rang out from somewhere
inside the dead, empty bodies.
And Dierdre and Meghan jumped up. And Meghan
threw her arms around Dierdre. And cried: “Thank
you! Thank you, Dierdre, for helping to set me free—
at last!”
141

cnaPle,
Des hugged Meghan back. Held on
to her. Tears ran down their cheeks.
“Thank you. Thank you,” Meghan repeated in &
choked whisper. “I couldn’t have done it without you,
Dierdre.”
“No—please—” Dierdre protested. “Thank you,
Meghan. For warningme about Robin. For comingto
me and telling me the truth about him.”
“He thought I didn’t know,” Meghan said, letting
her tears flow. “He thought he had me fooled. |
trusted Robin for so long. But when I found out the
truth, I had to pay him back—for what he did to me
and to all my friends.”
“Meghan, thank you! You’ve ended the curse.
You’ve ended Robin’s hold on all of us. We’re both
free now. Both free!”
“Goodbye, Dierdre!” Meghan called. She leapt
142

THE LAST SCREAM
over the wall to join her friends, her friends of so long
ago.
Dierdre watched as they went howling from the
iheater. Then, leaning on Gary, she followed them
put. Out into the fresh-smellinagir . Away from the
aorror and the rancid odor of death.
She saw the dead kids moving over the park.
Climbing onto the rides. Shrieking and howlingi n
wild joy.
They finally got their free admission, Dierdre real-
ized.
They finally got to enjoy the park.
The purple smoke billowed thickly, surrounding
ger, surrounding everything, a thick curtain of fog.
bhe could hear their squeals and howls of delight. She
sould hear them on the Inferno roller coaster. Shrill
ibrieks, shrieks of the dead come to life, shrieks that
mrew to a deafening howl.
And then silence.
The purple smoke faded to wisps along the ground.
Gone, Dierdre saw.. The dead kids were all gone.
Meghan too, she knew.
Poor Meghan.
All gone now. The park silent and empty.
After sixty years, they had their brief time in the
park. And now they were gone.
Gary grabbed both of her hands. He pulled her
¢lose.
I forgot all about him! Dierdre realized.
She saw the fear lingering in his eyes. “What
aappened?” he whispered. “Dierdre—I don’t under-
and.”
143

FEAR PARK — q
“We defeated the Fears,” Dierdre sighed. “Meghar
and I—we defeated the Fears and the curse they pu!
on the park.”
She pressed her forehead against Gary’s shoulder
She just wanted him to hold her, hold her, hold he:
safe forever.
“Meghan came to me,” Dierdre explained. “Afte:
Robin pushed Daddy into the Ferris wheel. Meghaz
saw the whole thing. She knew then that Robin hac
lied to her, lied to her for sixty years.”
Dierdre wrapped her arms around Gary’s waist
She held on tightly to him, as if he might disappea
along with the others.
“So Meghan came to me and told me the whol
story,” she continued breathlessly. “She took me t
their house. We read through Robin’s books of evi
spells. Meghan and I practiced them and practices
them. We had to destroy him. We knew if we worke‘
togethwee crou,ld .
“We found the spell to bring back the dead,’
Diertdoldr Geary . “And then we made our plan
Meghan picked a fight with Robin to make sure h
was angry enough to want to destroy her. Then we lef
the book with the spell on top of his stack, where hi
wofuind lit edasil y.”
She squeezed Gary’s hand. Held him close. “W
made Robin think that you came from the past. W
made him think that you were an immortal too, com
here to destroy him.”
Gary’s mouth dropped open. “Who? Me?” h
cried. “An immortalMe?? ”
“Meghan and I didn’t want him to know that w
144

>
4 THE LAST SCREAM
were working together. So we told him you were a kid
from the 1930s. We made him suspect you.”
Gary shook his head. “I don’t believe this!” he
declared.
“T believe it,” Dierdre said, holding on to him. “I
believei t. Meghan and I worked so long and hard on
our secret plan. Tonight Robin thought that he was
callupi thne dgea d. He thought he called those poor
kids up from the grave.
“But Meghan and I did it. We did it earlier. We did
it first. We did it and we sent them against Robin.
They got their revenge. And now he is gone. And his
eviis lgon e. The curse is gone. I know Daddy will be
okay now that the curse is lifted.”
She raised her face to Gary’s. “And we'll be okay
too. I know we will.”
Holding on to him, she began guiding him to the
front gate, walking slowly, feeling him beside her,
breathing the cool fresh air, listening to the clear,
crisp silence.
The silence .. .
What was that soft sound behind them as they
walked?
Was it the whisper of voices thankfully, peacefully,
returned to their graves?
Or the echo of the calliope—soft, happy music
from the carousel?
145

20d ieks Sesecke tise
ot Saas SOA_oeae
a aspect 4
Mesving sie 3 OF See
Behl Se tises ori
3c eS ERS

About R.L. Stine
R.L. Stine is the best-selling author in America. He has
written more than one hundred scary books for young
people, all of them bestsellers.
His series include Fear Street, Ghosts of Fear Street and
the Fear Street Sagas.
Bob grew up in Columbus, Ohio. Today he lives in New
York City with his wife, Jane, his teenage son, Matt, and
his dog, Nadine.

10 The Bugman Lives! 52950-1/$3.99
11 The Boy Who Ate Fear Street 00183-3/$3.99
12 Night of the Werecat 00184-1/$3.99
13 How to Be a Vampire 00185-X/$3.99
14 Body Switfcromh Oeuterr sSpa ce 00186-8/$3.99
15 Fright Christmas 00187-6/$3.99
16 Don’t Ever Get Sick atG ranny's 00188-4/$3.99
17 Houseo fa ThousandScreams § 00190-6/$3.99
18 Camp Fear Ghouls 00191-4/$3.99
19 Three Evil Wishes 00189-2/$3.99
20 Spello ft he Screaming Jokers 00192-2/$3.99
21 The Creature from Cub Lagoona 00850-1/$3.99
22 Fioef lScrdeam s 00851-X/$3.99
23 Why I'm Not Afroaf iGhdost s 00852-8/$3.99
24 Monster Dog 00853-6/$3.99
25 Halloween Bugs Me! 00854-4/$3.99
26 Goto Your Tomb — Right Now! 00855-2/$3.99
27 Parents from the 13th Dimension 00857-9/$3.99
Happy Hauntings: Collector’s Edition (WhBeeno Sle'epinsg in My
Grave?, Stay Away From the Tree House and Frigt Knight)
200O ldT enpan Fi OldT eppan, NJ.6 7675
Please send me the books | have checked above. lam enclosing$__(pleasaed d
$0.75 toc over thep ostage and handling fore ach order. Please add appropriate sales =
tax). Send check orm oney order-no cash orC .0.D.'s please. Allow upt os ixw eeks
ford elivery. For purchase over $10.00 you may use VISA: card number, expiration

COLLECTOR’S EDITIONS
DO YOU DARE READ THEM ALL?
THE BEGINNING SUMMER POWER
The New Giri Sunburn
The Surprise Party The Dead Lifeguard
The Overnight One Evil Summer
NIGHTMARES DEADLY GAMES
The Sleepwalker The Fire Game
The Secret Bedroom Night Games
Bad Dreams Truth or Dare
SECRETS LESSONS IN TERROR
The Confession The Cheater
What Holly Heard College Weekend
The Face Final Grade
DANGEROUS GIRLS CREATURES OF THE NIGHT
The Rich Girl First Scream
The Dare Loudest Scream
The Prom Queen Last Scream
EVIL POWERS THE HOUSE OF EVIL
Runaway The First Horror
The Mind Reader The Second Horror
The Thrill Club The Third Horror
From Archway Paperbacks
Published by Pocket Books aeeaing

GOODNIGHT
Kiss
+Collector’s Editione
Includes
Goodnight Kiss
Their first kiss could be her last....
Goodnight Kiss 2
It’s the kiss of death.
Plus...
The Vampire Club
A NEW Vampire story by R.L. Stine
Availabie from Archway Paperbacks
Published by Pocket Books Seoul

THE CURSE OF THE FEARS _
WILL NEVER DiE....
FEAR STREET SAGAS"
RESTING
ig *1 A NEW FEAR 52952-8/$3.99
ig #2 HOUSE OF WHISPERS 52953-6/$3.99
#35 FORBIDDEN SECRETS 52954-4/$3.99
#4 THE SIGN OF FEAR 00291-0/$3.99
#5 THE HiDDEN EViL 00292-9/83.99
#6 DAUGHTERS OF SiLENCE 00293-7/$3.99
5 #7 CHILDREN OF FEAR 00294-5/$3.99
= #8 DANCE OF DEATH 00295-3/$3.99
#9 HEART OF THE HUNTER 52966-8/$3.99
#10 THE AWAKENING EViL 00297-X/$3.99
Avaitablie from Archway Paperbacks
Published by Pocket Books
Please sendm et heb ooks| havec heckeda bove. lamenclosing$___(please add$ 0.75 to cover the postage
niandh andfolrei acnho grd er. Please adda pproprsialaetst eax ). Send check orm oney order-no casho rC .0.D.'s
iiplease. Allow up to six weeks for delivery. For purchase over $10.00 you may use VISA: card number, expiration
a date andc ustomer signature must bei ncluded.
State/Zip
Exp.Date

pag
et =

Goodnight Kiss —
Their first kiss could be her last....
Goodnight Kiss 2
It’s the kiss of death.
Plus...
The Vampire Club |
A short story by R.L. Stine
GOODNIGHT KISS"
COLLECTOR'S EDITION |
Available from Archway Paperbacks
Published by Pocket Books

Are you afraid to walk down Fear
_ Street? Maybe you should be.
They say that weird things always happen on that dark
and twisting road. They say it’s a place to be frightened
of—that those who go there never return the same.
And some never return at all...
What happens when someone decides to build an
amusement park on Fear Street? Discover the answer in
this special collector's edition of the FEAR PARK trilogy.
‘FEAR STREET COLLECTOR’S eerie #10:
FEAR PARK .
The First Scream
The Loudest Scream
The-Last Scream .
VISIT US ON THE WORLD WIDE.WEB
http://www. SimonSayskKids,com.
$6.99 U.S./$8.99 Can.
| ISBN 0-6 7 i 1-02306-3 i il
PUIR.NIS N.AT.E D