Wan 'c ellicc
q
* CHOOSE
FROM OVER
f
GOOSEBUMPS®
ON FOX
KIDS NETWORK
SCARY BIRTHDAY TO YOU!
SCHOLASTIC

i
i
i
9
" " I S
7 8 B N
0
5 O
9 0 ' - 5 9 0
9 -
9 3 9 9 3
9 5
0 6 9 0 -
9

BEWARE!!
DO NOT READ THIS
BOOK FROM
BEGINNING TO END!
What a bummer! Your mom hired a clown to en-
tertain at your birthday party. You’re way too old
for that kind of thing, you think. Until the “clown”
shows up. And he’s totally terrifying!
Dr. MacDeath has greenish skin, long, sharp fin-
gernails, and pointy fangs that drip some kind of
gooey red stuff all over your mom’s carpet. Ugh!
Before you can do anything, MacDeath nails shut
all the doors in your house — and promises to give
you the most horrifying birthday you’ve ever had!
This guy is so freaky, you’ve got a feeling he
isn’t kidding. Can you and your friends escape be-
fore MacDeath traps you in a world of unending
horror?
This scary adventure is all about you. You de-
cide what will happen. And you decide how terri-
fying the scares will be!
Start on PAGE 1. Then follow the instructions
at the bottom of each page. You make the choices.
If you choose well, you’ll make it home again. But
if you make the wrong choice... BEWARE!
SO TAKE A DEEP BREATH. CROSS YOUR
FINGERS. AND TURN TO PAGE 1 TO GIVE
YOURSELF GOOSEBUMPS!

READER BEWARE —
YOU CHOOSE THE SCARE!
Look for more
GIVE YOURSELF GOOSEBUMPS adventures
from R.L. STINE:
#5 Night in Werewolf Woods
#10 Diary of a Mad Mummy
#15 Please Don't Feed the Vampire!
#20 Toy Terror: Batteries Included
#21 The Twisted Tale of Tiki Island
#22 Return to the Carnival of Horrors
#23 Zapped in Space
#24 Lost in Stinkeye Swamp
#25 Shop Till You Drop... Dead!
#26 Alone in Snakebite Canyon
#27 Checkout Time at the Dead-end Hotel
#28 Night of a Thousand Claws
#29 Invaders from the Big Screen
#30 You’re Plant Food!
#31 The Werewolf of Twisted Tree Lodge
#32 It’s Only a Nightmare!
#33 It Came from the Internet
#34 Klevator to Nowhere
#35 Hocus-Pocus Horror
#36 Ship of Ghouls
#37 Escape from Horror House
#38 Into the Twister of Terror
Special Edition #1 Into the Jaws of Doom
Special Edition #2 Return to Terror Tower
Special Edition #3 Trapped in the Circus of Fear
Special Edition #4 One Night in Payne House
Special Edition #5 The Curse of the Cave Creatures
Special Edition #6 Revenge of the Body Squeezers

R.L. STINE
oosehumps
SCARY BIRTHDAY
TO YOU!
AN
APPLE
PAPERBACK
SCHOLASTIC INC.
New York Toronto London Auckland Sydney
Mexico City Ne lhi Hong Kong

A PARACHUTE PRESS BOOK
If you purchased this book without a cover, you should be aware that this
book is stolen property. It was reported as “unsold and destroyed” to the
publisher, and neither the author nor the publisher has received any payment
for this “stripped book.”
No part of this publication may be reproduced in whole or in part, or stored
in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, elec-
troriic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without written
permission of the publisher. For information regarding permission, write to
Scholastic Inc., Attention: Permissions Department, 555 Broadway, New
York, NY 10012.
ISBN 0-590-99390-9
Copyright © 1999 by Parachute Press, Inc. All rights reserved. Published
by Scholastic Inc. APPLE PAPERBACKS and logo are trademarks and/or
registered trademarks of Scholastic Inc. GOOSEBUMPS is a registered
trademark of Parachute Press, Inc.
1211 1029 8726" bs4e30 eet 9/9 0123 4/0
Printed in the U.S.A. 40
First Scholastic printing, September 1999

Your best friend, Alex, walks into your living
room on your birthday. He gazes around with a
grin. “You’re kidding! A birthday party — with no
one home?”
“My parents had to work,” you explain. “My
older brother was supposed to hang out, but he
split as soon as my parents left.”
Your four other friends from school are already
there. Josh. Mickey. Sarah. Virginia. Alex shoots a
fist into the air. “Yes!”
He tosses a big, colorfully wrapped package at
you. “Catch. It’s your present. You’re going to
love it!” Alex says. “I talked my mom into spend-
ing double the limit — since it’s you.”
You grin and catch the gift on the fly. It feels
like a whole bunch of video game cartridges
wrapped up together. Awesome!
“Who else is invited?” Sarah asks.
“Gabe and Brittany,” you answer. “But they
both got sick. And the Boyter twins might not get
home in time.”
The doorbell rings, and Josh races to answer it.
“Par-ty! Par-ty!” Josh chants. He flings open
the door.
You gasp at what’s standing there.
Answer the door on PAGE 2.

You stare at the guy in the doorway. He’s about
six feet six inches tall — and hideous. His face is a
grayish-green color, with big slash marks on it.
His eyes are rimmed in red, and they’re blood-
shot. Long, greasy hair hangs down the sides of
his head, but he’s bald on top. His teeth are pointy,
and they’re dripping what looks like — blood.
It’s makeup, you think. It’s got to be.
But it looks amazingly real.
“Happy birthday,” the guy says in a deep,
booming voice. It sounds like pure evil. He stares
straight at you.
“Who is that?” Alex whispers in your ear.
You shrug. Good question.
Then you notice all the stuff the guy is carrying.
Three birthday presents. A big cake box from a
nearby bakery. A black cloth bag filled with party
favors. Could he be some kind of entertainer for
your party? Like a clown or something?
He shoves his creepy face up close to yours.
“T’m Dr. MacDeath,” he says, lowering his voice to
a hoarse whisper. “Your parents hired me for your
party. You’re into horror — right?”
“Horror? Uh, yeah.” You gulp.
Let the freaky clown in on PAGE 8. —

Dr. MacDeath pushes past you and marches
into the living room.
Oh, brother, you think. How could your parents
do this to you? Hire some guy to perform at your
party? You’re too old for clowns. And besides, this
guy is seriously freaky.
You glance at your friends. They’re really going
to razz you for this.
Wait a minu—t theei r faces are lighting up.
Hey! They all seem to think this guy is cool. All
except Sarah.
“Your parents hired a clown?” she asks in a
snotty voice. “How babyish! What's he going to
do — make balloon animals?”
“Sure,” Dr. MacDeath says in his sinister voice.
“But I forgot to bring balloons — so I’ll have to
use you instead!”
He grabs Sarah and lifts her up. With his long,
strong arms, he begins pulling on her legs —
twisting them!
“Owwwwww!” Sarah screams. “Let me go!”
“There!” Dr. MacDeath sets your friend on the
floor. “What do you think?” He laughs a terrible,
deep laugh.
Go on to PAGE 4.

You stare in horror at Sarah. What did
MacDeath do to her?
Sarah doesn’t look human anymore! MacDeath
has stretched her arms and legs around her body
so many times that now she looks like — a swan!
A balloon-animal swan!
“Help me,” she moans.
You glance at your friends. Everyone looks
about as horrified as you feel. But — this can’t be
real, right? It must be some kind of magic trick or
something. If someone was really twisted up like
that, they’d be a goner. Wouldn’t they?
“Who’s next?” MacDeath demands. He points at
Josh. “You?”
“Nooo!” Josh cries. His voice cracks as he backs
away.
“Stop it!” Alex shouts at MacDeath. “And put
Sarah back to normal!”
Dr. MacDeath eyes Sarah. “Normal?” he says.
“She looks pretty normal to me!” He lets loose an-
other crazy laugh.
Qh, no, you think. This guy is a lunatic! You
don’t know whether to scream or run to get your
older brother, Brian.
But before you can decide, the front doorbell
rings.
“Don’t answer it!” Dr. MacDeath shouts.
Should you listen to him?
If you answer the front door, turn to PAGE 41.
Tf you don’t answer it, turn to PAGE 60.

The head in the bakery box stares up at you.
And then — whoa!
Its dead-looking yellow eyes blink, its lips
move.
“Help me,” the head pleads, moving its mouth
with great effort. “Please ... help me.”
You want to barf. Or at least push the box off
your lap.
Your stomach turns over. You feel faint ... and
sick ... and terrified. All at once.
Get this thing off me! you think.
But something stops you. Stops you from jump-
ing up. Shoving the box away. ;
It’s the look in the head’s eyes — so real.
And so sad.
“Help me — please,” he pleads again, sounding
desperate.
Help him on PAGE 97.

“Wow!” Josh says with a shiver. “That was...
way too weird!”
“Yeah,” Alex agrees. “I guess your parents did
hire him for your party after all.”
You slowly nod your head. “I guess so.”
“But what did he mean about ‘see you tomor-
row?” Sarah asks.
You shrug. Who knows?
Then it hits you.
“Wait a second. Tomorrow’s the first day of
school!” you remind your friends.
Yup. That’s right.
When you arrive at school the next day, a tall
man with a deep voice is standing out front. His
face isn’t green anymore. And his teeth don’t drip
blood. But it’s the same guy. You can tell from the
twisted sneer on his face.
“Good morning,” he says. He grins at you. “I’m
Dr. MacDermott — your new school principal. If
you don’t follow the rules — you’re going to be
very sorry!”
He laughs the same evil laugh fab you heard
yesterday.
You and Alex glance at each other.
You can’t believe it. Your new principal is a real
horror — and the school year looks like it’s going
to be a total nightmare!
THE END

“Let’s leave Virginia here,” Josh suggests.
“She’s such a wimp anyway. She won’t be any
good at finding stuff on the list.”
“No way!” Virginia objects. “I’m not staying
here with him! It’s your birthday.” She points at
you. “You should stay.”
“Yeah,” Sarah chimes in. “He’s your party guy.
You stay with him!”
She’s right, you think. You probably should be
the one to stay behind.
But then maybe your friends will just go home.
Maybe they'll never come back for you. Maybe
you'll be stuck with Dr. MacDeath — forever!
Well?
If you leave Virginia with Dr. MacDeath, turn
to PAGE 44.
Tf you stay with Dr. MacDeath yourself, turn to
PAGE 106.

You feel your throat tighten up, staring at the
photo of yourself on the CD.
“Alex? What is this—some kind of a sick
joke?” you ask.
“T don’t know anything about it,” Alex blurts
out fast. “Honest! I bought you a bunch of music
CDs.” Alex points at MacDeath. “He must have
changed it — somehow!”
“Play it!” Dr. MacDeath orders in his hoarse
voice.
You can’t, you realize. You’re frozen to your
spot.
MacDeath grabs the CD from your hands and
quickly puts it in the player in your living room.
Organ music booms out of the speakers. Creepy
organ music. Like from an old horror film.
Then you hear your own voice in the back-
ground.
Your own voi— cbegegin g and pleading for
help!
“No!” you hear yourself scream on the CD.
“Don’t hurt me! Leave me alone!”
Listen to the rest on PAGE 68.

9
Dr. MacDeath drags Mickey into the dark
house. You, Alex, and the others follow.
Where did Mickey get a murderer’s knife, any-
way? you wonder.
And what’s Dr. MacDeath going to do with it?
Sarah rushes ahead of you, to find Virginia. Vir-
ginia is huddled on a big chair, hugging her knees.
“Did he hurt you?” Sarah asks.
“No,” Virginia whimpers. “But he made me
watch while he ate live bugs. It was horrible!”
“EKwww!” Sarah cries, making a face.
“And he said he’s never going to let us go!” Vir-
ginia adds.
“Shut up!” MacDeath shouts. “All of you — just
shut up!”
Wait a minute — why should we? you wonder.
Maybe you should start screaming. Make tons
of noise, so the neighbors will call the police.
“Let’s see what you’ve brought me, you little
scavengers,” MacDeath says with a chuckle.
“Let’s see if you won the game.”
What do you think? Do you want to start
screaming? Or see if you won the scavenger hunt?
Tf you start screaming, turn to PAGE 37.
If you shut up and hope you’ve won the game,
turn to PAGE 21.

10
You open the back door for Mrs. Jancovich.
“Who threw this into my garden?” she de-
mands. She hands you the bomb.
Now that yow’re not in panic mode, you can see
that the “bomb” is made of cheap plastic. It’s just
a toy.
You talk fast. “This guy was trying to kill us.”
You point to MacDeath. “He — he twisted Sarah
into a swan!”
“Uh, actually — no, he didn’t,” Sarah calls from
behind you.
“What?” You whirl around to face her.
“This is my uncle Ted,” Sarah explains. “The
whole thing was supposed to be a surprise. To
make your party scary. See, ’m double-jointed.
Uncle Ted taught me how to twist my arms and
legs like that, into a swan.” She chuckles. “Pretty
freaky, huh?”
“Your mother told me about this party.” Mrs.
Jancovich scowls. “It’s obviously gotten out of
hand. Which means it’s over — right now. Send all
your friends home.” :
What a bummer! I can’t believe it, you think, as
your friends file out the door. This whole scary
birthday was a trick! A show put on by Sarah and
her uncle Ted!
Well, believe it or not, that’s the truth.
And you'll have to decide whether to believe us
when we tell you you’ve reached
THE VERY BEST END IN THE WHOLE BOOK.

11
Okay, you think. Alex is right. You’ll hang the
doll from the end of the branch.
You creep out on the tree limb and try to bal-
ance there, fiddling with the noose.
Then you slip it around the doll’s neck and let
her fall.
She swings there for a minute, hanging by her
neck.
A shiver runs up your spine.
This is totally sick, you think. You tremble,
clinging to the tree branch.
The branch begins to quiver and shake.
Whoa! You're starting to slip. All of a sudden,
you can’t wait to come down from that tree!
Come on down on PAGE 62.

12
The floor shakes and rumbles so much that you
and your friends all stop screaming, to see what’s
going on.
“Whoa!” Josh cries. “Earthquake!”
He’s right. You see some glasses shake and jig-
gle on a shelf.
A moment later, you notice a siren. A number of
sirens. Really loud, piercing ones.
“What is that?” Virginia asks meekly. “Are the
police coming? To save us?”
You listen for a minute.
Nope. That’s only car alarms! Car alarms set off
by a small earthquake — which is now over.
“Ha-ha-ha!” Dr. MacDeath laughs. “You little
fools! No one heard your stupid screams — and
now, because of my beautiful earthquake, no one
will! Those car alarms are going to be blaring for
the next two hours!”
Your heart sinks. MacDeath’s magic caused that
earthquake. He’s so powerful. How are you ever
going to get out of this?
“Now,” MacDeath insists, “show me what you
found on the scavenger hunt. That’s the only way
youre going to get out of here alive.”
Do what he says on PAGE 21.

13
Bob points to a coffin in the middle of a small,
dungeon-like room.
You stop short.
In the coffin you see the body of a boy, in Josh’s
clothes. It’s laid out like a corpse — and it has no
head!
“Aaaaah!” you scream.
Did they really cut off Josh’s head?
“Great scream!” Bob says cheerfully, holding a
small, handheld tape recorder in front of your
face. “I knew you’d be good at this!”
“But, but...” you stammer.
Bob laughs and walks over to the corpse. “Don’t
worry — it’s not real,” he explains. “We just bor-
rowed your friend’s clothes, to give you a good
scare.”
He slaps the rubber corpse to show you.
“But wait till you see what we did with your pet
cat!” he adds with a nasty smile.
Well — go on. Scream again. You’re getting
paid for it! So you might as well scream your head
off, all the way to...
THE END.

14
Sweating with fear, you stare at the bomb
you've just caught.
It’s going to explode! you think. It’ll blow me to
bits!
You turn and hurl it as hard and as fast as you
can. You throw it straight through the nearest
window, shattering the glass.
It lands outside — in a flower bed in your next-
door neighbor’s yard.
“Take cover, everyone!” you shout. “Duck!”
Turn to PAGE 39.

15
You point your weapon at Dr. MacDeath and
pull the trigger.
KA-BLAM! A green paintball flies out of the
barrel. It smacks him hard — right in the middle
of his chest.
“Good shot!” Dr. MacDeath cheers.
Then instantly he fires his weapon at you.
SPLAT!
You’re been blasted with a ton of the liquid acid.
You’re history! Toast.
The stuff in MacDeath’s weapon has eaten you
for dinner.
BURP!
THE END

16
“Let’s go drown him in paintballs,” you decide.
Huddled in the bushes, you and your friends all
load up your weapons.
Then you take a deep breath.
Where is MacDeath, anyway?
Outside the bushes, it’s quiet.
You hear a twig snap. Was that a footstep?
Nearby?
Your heart pounds, as you wonder. is MacDeath
waiting out there? Waiting to ambush you?
What if he blasts you first — with that acid
stuff? Right in the face?
“On my signal,” you whisper to Alex, “we go!”
Alex nods.
“Now!” you say as softly as you can.
Leap out of the bushes on PAGE 58.

17
“Let’s play Pin the Tail on the Donkey,” you de-
cide.
It’s a stupid game, you realize. Really babyish.
But you picked it because if babies can play it,
then you figure it'll be pretty safe. No one will get
hurt doing it. Will they?
Besides, you have a plan. You're going to
cheat — and peek. It’s worth it if you can beat Dr.
MacDeath.
“Yes.” Dr. MacDeath gives an evil grin. “Pin the
Tail. Gooood.”
He reaches into his black bag and pulls out a
large cardboard cutout of an animal. It looks more
like a huge, ugly dog than a donkey. Its face is
turned toward you, and it seems to be growling. It
has very sharp teeth.
Dr. MacDeath tapes the thing right onto your
living room wall.
“What zs that thing?” Alex asks.
Dr. MacDeath doesn’t answer. He just snickers
to himself.
You shiver at the sneaky look on his face. What
could MacDeath have up his sleeve?
The game begins on PAGE 115. Get ready to
win — or lose!

18
Your heart is pounding as you glance at the four
items on the table.
“Uh, I'll pick the drain cleaner,” you decide.
Why not? you think. The others don’t seem
right. The mouse’s tongue is inside a whole
mouse. Maybe MacDeath won’t like that. The
noose wasn’t used to hang a real person. And the
skeleton? For all you know, it’s plastic!
“The drain cleaner?” MacDeath shouts. “You
call that a pretty poison? Ha-ha-ha! What a joke!
You lose!”
Then he whips a pack of matches and some
birthday candles out of his pocket. He jabs a hand-
ful of candles into your birthday cake. The cake
full of bugs.
“Time to make a wish!” he yells, gleefully light-
ing the candles. “And I’ll give you a hint. Before
I’m done with you — you'll wish you were dead!”
The candles are grouped so close together, they
all flame up at once. Like a huge torch. The flames
singe the ceiling. Gobs of wax drip onto the cake.
“Whoa!” Alex shouts. “Blow them out — before
he burns the house down!”
Blow out the candles on PAGE 25.

19
“I am not touching a dead mouse,” you insist as
you hurry toward the pet store.
It’s a long walk — about ten blocks away — to
the store. It takes you twenty minutes to get
there. When you arrive, the shop owner is just
closing up.
“Please,” you beg him. “We just need to buy a
mouse.”
“Okay,” the shop owner says. “I’ve got one right
here — real cheap. But be quick about it.”
Hastily the owner lifts a small gray mouse out
of a cage. He puts it in a cardboard container —
the kind that Chinese food comes in. You pay the
man and leave.
Then you race back to your neighborhood.
But by the time you get there, the hour is al-
most up.
“We’ve got to meet the others back at my house
in eight minutes!” you exclaim. “And we don’t
have the noose. Or the blood from a turnip!”
“We're going to lose,” Alex moans. “We blew it.
We’re dead!”
Hurry to PAGE 57.

20
“Hey, Dr. MacDeath,” you call. “Uh, how many
birthday parties do you do a week?”
MacDeath eyes you sideways.
“Why do you want to know?” he asks.
“Because,” you mumble. “I was thinking...
maybe you need an assistant.”
“An assistant?” MacDeath repeats. He seems to
turn the idea over in his head.
“Yeah,” you explain. “You know —- someone to
help you out at the parties. Carry your black bag.
Help you scare kids. Stuff like that.”
Please say yes, you think. Let me be your assis-
tant.
Because as soon as Dr. MacDeath lets you leave
the house, you can call the police! Or run for help.
Get away from him somehow.
MacDeath’s face lights up. “Yeah,” he agrees.
“Maybe I do need a sidekick!”
Yes! you think. He went for it!
Become MacDeath’s assistant on PAGE 40.

al
You decide to do what MacDeath says. Shut up
and show him the stuff you’ve found.
He marches over to the dining room table and
pats it.
“Here,” he says. “Put all the little goodies right
here.”
One by one, you lay your three things on the
table. The mouse, the turnip, and the noose. Josh
adds the skeleton’s hand and the drain cleaner —
the “pretty” poison. Mickey goes last. He reaches
into his pocket and pulls out a Swiss army knife.
“Ah-ha!” Dr. MacDeath cries.
He snatches up the knife and quickly sticks it
under his nose. He sniffs. Deeply. Twice.
“Yesss,” he says. “This 7s a murder weapon! I
can smell the lovely stench of death on the blade!”
You shiver and stare at Mickey in alarm. Is it
really? A real murderer’s knife? Where did he get
it?
And can Dr. MacDeath really smell death on
the blade?
Sick!
“Well, well, well,” MacDeath says. “Perhaps
you are going to win this game.”
See if you've won on PAGE 90.

22
“T want to...um... open presents.” You try to
control your trembling voice.
“Good,” Dr. MacDeath says, staring at you with
his hideous, red-rimmed eyes.
He grins and reaches for the three wrapped
presents he brought with him. One tiny box. A
medium-size package. And a large one wrapped in
shiny black paper with ugly green ribbons.
“Want to open my presents,” he asks, “or those
wimpy gifts from your so-called friends?”
An evil smile forms at the corners of his mouth.
He looks like he can’t wait for you to choose. Be-
cause either way, it’s going to be horrible!
You swallow hard.
The way he looks, you feel scared to open any-
thing!
But you’ve got to pick something.
Tf you open Dr. MacDeath’s gifts, turn to PAGE
Zo.
If you open gifts from your ee turn to
PAGE 100.

23
Dr. MacDeath lets the other kids at your party
go home. Then he drives you and Josh to Horror
Place.
When you reach the amusement park, Dr.
MacDeath hops out of the car and watches you go
through Horror Place’s big black wrought-iron
gates.
They’re twisted into the shape of a huge skull.
“Bye,” he calls. For some reason his voice
sounds as if he’s mocking you. “Have tons of
fun — my kind of fun!”
“Good-bye — and good riddance!” Josh calls
back in a snotty tone of voice.
“Hey, don’t make him mad,” you caution Josh.
“We don’t want him coming after us or anything.”
“Don’t worry about it. We’re home free now!”
Josh says. “Last one in the haunted house is a rot-
ten egg!” He races ahead of you into the huge,
creepy house that is the central attraction at Hor-
ror Place. It’s painted black, with bright green
slime dripping all over it.
“Wait!” you call to Josh, running to catch up
with him.
You dash in through the double door— san d
plunge into darkness. “Josh?” you call out softly in
the dark.
But there’s no answer.
Search for Josh on PAGE 68.

24
You make your choice.
“Dodgeball? Good!” Dr. MacDeath says. “All
right, you know the rules. Make a circle — around
me.”
“Right here? In the living room?” you ask. “My
mom always makes us play dodgeball outside!”
That’s why you picked this game in the first
place! You figured if you were outside, at least you
could run for help.
But Dr. MacDeath shakes his head.
“In here!” he yells. “A circle! Now!”
You hear a clap of thunder outside. The sky
darkens. You gulp. It’s as if MacDeath’s anger
caused the thunder.
Your heart pounds in your ears. Oh, man.
Who — or what — is this guy?
You, Alex, Sarah, Virginia, Josh, and Mickey all
form a circle around Dr. MacDeath.
“Where’s the ball?” Josh asks in a meek voice.
“Right here,’ MacDeath snarls. He bends over
and reaches into his big black cloth bag.
But what he pulls out isn’t a ball.
“No!” Mickey cries when he sees the object in
the palm of MacDeath’s hand. “Noooo!”
Dodge whatever it is on PAGE 112.

25
You take a deep breath and lean in close to the
cake.
Make a wish? you think. That’s easy. There’s
only one thing you really want.
You close your eyes and blow as hard as you
can, iu
I wish I was as far away from Dr. MacDeath as
possible, you think.
You open up your eyes again.
Surprise! It’s your birthday . .. so of course you
got your wish!
You gaze around and see you've been trans-
ported to some kind of a small, undeveloped vil-
lage. Straw huts stand all around you. You’re in
the middle of a dusty street — surrounded by
what look like — llamas!
Yikes! Talk about scary!
But, hey — don’t worry. If you can tough it out
in this village for a year, maybe someone will
make you another birthday cake. You’ll get an-
other wish, and you can try wishing yourself back
home!
THE END

26
You heart hammers as you enter the ballroom.
“Josh?” you call, staring hard at the ghostly fig-
ures that are waltzing around the ballroom, faster
and faster, in time to the music.
A chill runs up your spine.
It’s just the creepy music that’s making me
scared, you tell yourself. If they’d turn off the mu-
sic, it wouldn’t be half so creepy in there.
Yeah, right. Then how come you just flinched
when a wispy cobweb trailed across your face?
“Josh?”
“Yeah?” His voice comes from somewhere in
the room. He sounds scared.
You squint harder, trying to see. ...
Is that him? Dancing with the old woman with
the long white hair?
“Help me,” Josh calls. “She won’t let me go!”
Help him on PAGE 111.

ai
Alex pulls a thick rope out of a kitchen drawer
and starts twisting it into a noose.
“Stephanie — my little sister Laura’s doll,” he
answers, breaking into a goofy grin. “Laura
thinks she’s real, so we'll make a noose and hang
her. That way, we can tell MacDeath that the
noose was used to hang someone.”
Whew! you think. Alex is talking about a doll.
Well, hanging a little girl’s doll is pretty cruel. But
a regular old rope may not make it with Dr.
MacDeath.
This is the best you can do.
Alex marches off toward his little sister’s room
and returns a moment later with the doll.
“Now we find a tree branch,” Alex says.
“Okay,” you agree. “Let’s go.”
Hang Stephanie on PAGE 55.

28
You stare at Josh’s back — where MacDeath
shot him. He’s covered in — in paint!
You breathe a sign of relief. Whew! MacDeath
was just firing a paintball gun.
“Owww!” Josh screams. “Helllp! Ow!”
What’s his problem? It’s just a paintball.
Then you notice the smoke rising from Josh’s
back. The paint! It looks as if it’s burning Josh’s
clothes!
You grab the garden hose and turn the spray on
Josh. Whatever is in Dr. MacDeath’s paintball
gun — it isn’t paint! It’s more like acid!
Washing the stuff off seems to help. But Josh’s
back looks horrible. Red and yucky — like it’s go-
ing to blister.
“Ha-ha-ha!” Dr. MacDeath laughs. “Now...
who’s next?”
No way, you think. It’s not going to be me — or
any of us!
You raise your weapon to shoot back at him.
“Go ahead,” he says. He stands at the far oppo-
site end of the driveway, aiming his weapon filled
with acid stuff at you. “Take your best shot,” he
challenges, smiling.
Uh-oh. Your heart pounds.
Are you fast enough for this showdown?
If you go for the showdown, turn to PAGE 15.
If you run and hide in the bushes, turn to
PAGE 118.

29
Of course she’s going to make fun of you.
Sarah’s a really great friend. But she hates any-
thing babyish.
“What a ridiculous party! I can’t believe your
parents hired a clown. What are you, five?” she
asks you. “Come on, everybody, let’s go.” She
heads for the door.
“Wait!” you cry, turning to your other friends.
“You guys want to watch me open presents, don’t
you? That would be fun.”
“No, thanks,” Josh says. “I’m going home. I’ve
had enough fwn for one day.”
“Me too,” the other kids say.
Whoa! Talk about a lousy birthday!
When all your friends are gone, you light your
birthday candles and make a wish. “I wish my
birthday could start all over again,” you say out
loud.
Hey— n o problem. To make your wish come
true all you have to do is turn back to PAGE 1 and
start reading again!
But you can’t wish your way out of the fact that
you’ve come to...
THE END.

30
Alex backs away from you — as if you’re a mon-
ster.
“No! I’m not going to cut the tongue out!” you
explain quickly. “All we have to do is bring back a
whole mouse — with the tongue inside. I mean,
the list doesn’t say the tongue has to be detached
or anything.”
“True,” Alex agrees with a sigh of relief. Then
his eyes light up. “Hey — I know where we can
get a mouse!”
“Where?” you ask.
“My basement. My dad put a mousetrap down
there a few days ago,” Alex explains. “My mom
complained because he didn’t take away the dead
mouse. Maybe it’s still there.”
A dead mouse? Yuck! “I was thinking we could
go to the pet store and buy a live mouse,” you sug-
gest.
“That might take too long,” Alex argues.
“We’ve got to hurry. We still need two other
things — the noose and the blood from the turnip.
Which both sound pretty hard to come by.”
‘ He’s right. The clock is ticking on you.
It’s your birthday — so it’s your call.
Mouse tongue: dead or alive?
If you go to Alex’s basement for the dead mouse,
turn to PAGE 54.
Tf you go to the pet store, turn to PAGE 19.

ol
You blink again. And gasp.
Towering over youls...
A guy in khakis and a navy blue polo shirt?
Yes. A normal, regular guy. No scary makeup.
No fangs dripping blood. Just a nice-looking col-
lege student with bushy eyebrows and a big smile.
“Hey — great scream,” he says. He reaches out
to offer you a hand. “I’m Bob Morton. I’m in
charge of sound effects here at Horror Place. You
want a job as a screamer?”
“A screamer?” you ask, bewildered.
“Yeah — doing sound effects,” Bob explains.
“We’ve got a ton of spooky rooms in this place. We
use screaming sounds in most of them — on tape.
But you’re better than the stuff we’ve got. So I
want to hire you and retape the screams. I'll pay
you tons of money. What do you say?”
For tons of money you say yes — as fast as you
possibly can!
“But what about my friend Josh?” you ask. “He
disappeared in here a few minutes ago.”
“Oh, don’t worry,” Bob says, leading you into
one of the smaller rooms. “We gave him a job too.
He’s right here.”
See what Josh is doing on PAGE 13.

OZ
A terrible, twisted smile creeps across Dr.
MacDeath’s face.
“The condition,” he says, leering at you and
your friends, “is that one of you must stay behind,
here with me!”
“No way!” Josh argues. “That’s kidnapping!”
MacDeath folds his arms over his chest and
glares at you.
“If you want to have the scavenger hunt, one of
you must stay behind as my prisoner!” he de-
mands. “That way I’ll be sure the rest of you will
return.”
You gulp and swallow hard. But you know this
is your only chance. You’ve got to go along with it.
And leave someone behind.
But who?
Decide on PAGE 7.

D9
You open Mickey’s pocketknife and cut the veg-
etable in half. Red juice runs onto the tablecloth,
staining it a deep blood color. “See? Blood from a
turnip!” you announce.
Dr. MacDeath throws back his greasy head and
laughs. “You fool!” he shouts. “You’re beaten. Be-
cause that’s not a turnip — it’s a beet! Ha-ha-ha-
ha-ha!”
Oh, no, you think. It’s not a turnip!
Your heart feels like it’s pounding a thousand
times a minute.
You can’t believe it. You lost!
Turn to PAGE 114.

o4
The acid in Dr. MacDeath’s own weapon hits
him. He grabs his face.
“Aaahhhhhh!” he cries, twisting in pain.
Then he pulls his hands away from his face. And
grins.
A terrible, evil, vicious grin.
“You thought you could hurt me?” he asks. He
tosses his head back and laughs.
You’re definitely not finding this as funny as
MacDeath.
You stare at him in horror as his face begins to
twist ... and grow. It puffs up — as if it’s going to
explode!
“What’s going on?” Alex cries, gasping.
Your heart is pounding so hard, you can’t an-
swer him.
All you can do is watch...as Dr. MacDeath’s
head grows larger. And larger.
His body starts to expand too. As if the stuff
you squirted at him was some kind of... madman
fertilizer!
“Oh, no!” Virginia screams. “He’s getting big-
ger!”
Turn to PAGE 108.

OO
You and Alex exchange terrified glances.
Where did this guy get the key to your back door?
“Now,” Dr. MacDeath says. He picks up the big
bakery box and sets it down on the dining room
table. “Who wants cake?”
None of your friends move.
MacDeath reaches into his black cloth bag and
pulls out a huge knife. “Here.” He hands the knife
to you. “You're the birthday kid. Cut the cake.”
You take the long, gleaming knife from Dr.
MacDeath. It’s heavy and sharp — and deadly
looking. You really don’t want to hold it, but
MacDeath thrusts the handle at you.
“Don’t cut the cake until he fixes Sarah,” Vir-
ginia demands. “Make him put her back to nor-
mal!” 7
“Oh, please,” Dr. MacDeath says. He rolls his
ugly, red-rimmed eyes. “Just cut the cake!”
“No!” you insist. “Not until you fix Sarah!”
MacDeath glares at you angrily.
What’s he going to do? Turn to PAGE 104 to find
out.

36
You lift the heavy bakery box off your lap and
set it on the floor.
“Okay,” you agree reluctantly. “Wait here. [ll
go dig up your body.”
“Wait here?” the head moars. “What is that — a
joke? I have to wait here, wise guy! What choice
do I have?”
He’s got a point.
You grab a shovel and dash outside to Mrs. Jan-
covich’s house.
“Are you nuts?” Alex asks, following you.
“Youre really going to dig up her flower garden?
She’ll kill you!”
“They'll kill us,’ you reply, nodding back
toward the house where Dr. MacDeath and the
severed head are. “Unless we help.”
Alex shrugs and pitches in to do some digging.
You both take turns digging up the flower garden.
Under the moonlight.
Finally you come to it. The body. The headless
dead body that was attached to the man in the
bakery box.
Except it isn’t really dead!
Turn to PAGE 122.

ol
You start screaming at the top of your lungs.
“Hellllp! Aaaahhhhhhh!”
“Stop it!” MacDeath cries.
“NO!” you shout. “Come on, everybody!
Scream your brains out! And maybe someone will
come to help!”
Instantly, all your friends open their mouths
and start screaming too.
You notice the dining room table beginning to
shake.
Wow! you think. They’re screaming so loud, it’s
making the floor rumble!
Turn to PAGE 12.

D8
“Hey — cool!” you cheer. You stare into the
box.
Inside is a gray stuffed animal about the size of
a small dog. But it’s a wolf. A gray wolf, with
white fangs and pale blue eyes.
You reach into the box to feel the soft, fake fur.
“What is it?” Josh asks. He cranes his neck to
see.
“It’s a wolf!” you tell him. You put your hand on
the stuffed animal’s neck.
“Grrr.
From inside the box, you hear a horrible growl.
You stare at the wolf — and see what looks like —
a flash in its eyes!
No, you think. It can’t be. The stuffed animal
can’t be coming to life!
As fast as you can, you jerk your hand out of the
box.
But not fast enough.
With one furious flick of his jaw, the wolf snaps
at your hand and...
Whoops!
« Looks like it'll be a little hard to turn the pages
of this book from now on! Because you have come
toa very wnhandy...
END.

og
You and your friends lie on the floor and wait.
You hold your breath, bracing yourself. Waiting
for the deadly bomb explosion.
Nothing happens for an entire minute.
Then you hear your neighbor Mrs. Jancovich
come out of her house.
“Uh-oh,” MacDeath says in a whiny voice. His
shoulders slump. “I’m in big trouble now.”
Huh? Is Dr. MacDeath — this crazy, scary per-
son — afraid of Mrs. Jancovich?
Find out on PAGE 71.

AQ
“So where’s our next party?” you ask him. “We
ought to get going, don’t you think?”
“Yeah, sure,” Dr. MacDeath agrees. “I’ve got
another party across town in two hours. Maybe
we should show up early — and scare the stupid
birthday kid out of his mind! Ha-ha-ha-ha!”
You shiver when you hear him laugh. But you
nod your head.
“Yeah,” you agree. “Let’s go early. That’ll be
good.”
You and Dr. MacDeath climb into his ear. It’s a
long black hearse — the kind of car used to drive
dead people to the cemetery.
MacDeath drives across town and parks in front
of a large brick house.
Now is my chance, you think. I’ll bolt out of the
car and make a dash for it. Run to freedom.
But something stops you.
Find out what it is on PAGE 82.

41
DINGDONG. DINGDONG. DINGDONG.
The doorbell rings three more times. As though
it’s really urgent that whoever’s on the outside
gets in.
You can’t stand it. You have to answer the door.
You run to it before Dr. MacDeath can stop you.
Please, you pray. Please let it be someone who
can help us!
Maybe it’s your friends the Boyter twins.
Maybe their parents will be with them! Maybe
they’ll save you from this maniac!
Nope.
Standing in the doorway is a clown in full
makeup. A party clown. White face. Red wig. Stu-
pid polka-dot pants.
And he’s holding a huge, sharpened hatchet in
his hands!
Yikes!
Turn to PAGE 59.

42
“Aaaaahhhhh!” you scream. You jump back to
get away from the bony hand.
But as you whirl around, you see Josh standing
there. Mickey and Sarah are beside him. They
burst out laughing.
“Gotcha!” Josh says. He shakes a skeleton’s
hand in your face.
“Very funny,” you snap, not thinking it was
funny at all. Isn’t anyone else worried about Vir-
ginia? you wonder.
“Did you guys get everything?” Josh asks.
You nod. “How about you?”
“Sort of,’ Sarah says. “My dad had that skele-
ton’s hand at home. We’re using that for the
bones.”
“And I found some drain cleaner under our
kitchen sink,” Josh offers. “For the poison. It’s not
pretty poison, but it’s the best I could do.”
Oh, man, you think. That’s pretty lame. “What
about the murderer’s knife?” you ask.
“I have one,” Mickey answers solemnly. “You
want to see it?”
““T want to see it!” a deep voice booms from in-
side the house. Dr. MacDeath flings open the back
door. He grabs Mickey by the arm. “Give me the
murderer’s knife — now!”
Give him the knife on PAGE 9.

43
You swallow hard. But you decide Alex is right.
If you’re going to win the scavenger hunt, you’ve
got to bring Dr. MacDeath hwman bones. That’s
what he meant when he said “bones from a grave-
yard.”
You grip the shovel and tiptoe toward the tomb-
stones.
“Nooooooo00,” the spooky voice calls again.
But you ignore it. You stick your shovel into the
ground and dig up a huge chunk of fresh earth.
WHOOSH! A forceful wind blows your hair
back.
A white mist rises up out of the ground.
It looks like a long, almost human-shaped
stream of smoke.
“T said noooooooo!” the spirit moans, swirling
around your head.
Before you can run, the spirit twists its body
around your neck — like a rope. Then it swirls
again, twisting around Alex’s neck. It has you
both trapped!
“Only the dead walk here at night!” the spirit
moans. It dives back into the freshly dug earth —
dragging you with it!
Well, it looks like you’ve dug your own grave
this time!
THE END

44
You tilt your head at Virginia. “Sorry,” you tell
her softly. “But we have to win — or we'll never
get rid of that creep. Josh is right — you’re not
really good at scavenger hunts. So you stay here.
We'll come back soon. I promise.”
“No fair!” Virginia cries. Her eyes are wild with
terror.
“Relax,” Dr. MacDeath says to her. “We’ll just
hang aroun— dan d eat birthday cake together!
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!”
He slices off a piece of cake. Two lizards scam-
per out from it. They run onto the table and then
dart across the floor.
Virginia screams.
You feel bad, but you have no choice. You have
to leave Virginia behind. You swallow hard and
pick up the list of items. Then you turn to Dr.
MacDeath.
“Unlock the back door,” you demand. “Let us
out,
You'll be free as soon as he unlocks the door on
PAGE 83.

45
You glance to the corner of the room where the
presents are stacked. A big box from Sarah sits
near the front.
“Sarah?” you ask, eyeing her questioningly.
“Should I open yours?”
You’re a little nervous after what happened
with Alex’s present. But Sarah nods.
“Yeah — I guess so,” she says.
You lift the big box and set it in the middle of
the floor. It’s wrapped in pink-and-purple paper,
with HAPPY BIRTHDAY written all over it in silver
ink.
“Hurry up!” Dr. MacDeath’s scratchy voice
booms at you.
Okay, here goes, you think.
You tear the wrapping off and open the big
white gift box.
See what’s inside on PAGE 88.

46
Are you serious?
You’re going to tell Dr. MacDeath that his game
isn’t fair?
You want fair — from a madman? From a guy
who twisted one of your best friends into a swan?
Forget it. Don’t even go there.
Just close this book and come back when you’re
ready to face the facts.
Like the fact that no one named Dr. MacDeath
gives a flying leap about playing fair.
And like the fact that — whether it’s fair or
not — you're being kicked out of this book for be-
ing too silly to read it!
THE END

Al
You're about to say “Let’s do it,” when Mickey
grabs your arm.
“Wait. I have a better idea,” he announces. “I
say we trick him into putting down his weapon.
Then we take his weapon — and switch it with
one of ours. If we have his gun, we can shoot him
with that acid stuff.”
Hmmm. That’s a good plan too!
Well? What do you think you should do?
If you drown MacDeath in paintballs, turn to
PAGE 16.
If you try to switch weapons with MacDeath,
turn to PAGE 124.

48
“Your parents hired me for your party,” the
clown explains. “But that cr—e MaecDepath —
kidnapped me and locked me in his basement.
Then he started dropping in on birthday par-
ties — my parties — all over town. Seems he gets
a kick out of scaring kids to death. Now we’ve
finally caught him.”
“Wow,” Alex says, shaking his head.
“But what about Sarah?” you ask. “Can you
undo that?”
You turn and point at her — the human swan.
You shudder.
“Don’t worry — I can fix it,” the clown answers
you. “Balloon animals are my specialty. So I'll
just... wnmake her!”
He picks up Sarah and tucks her under one arm.
Then he begins twisting her arms and legs. Un-
twisting them, actually. Pretty soon she’s back to
normal.
Except that her face is all red. Her arms look
sore. And she looks mad.
Sarah narrows her eyes at you.
*“Your parents did hire a clown!” she complains.
“How lame!”
Huh? Is she really going to make fun of you —
even after you practically saved her life?
Find out on PAGE 29.

49
“Hold on!” you cry. “We still win!”
“How?” MacDeath asks, eyeing you carefully.
“Well, you didn’t say the bones had to be
buried,” you argue. “You just said they had to be
bones from a graveyard. And these were in a
graveyard tonight. Weren’t they, Sarah?”
You sort of give her a strong, steady stare. Like
a hint — to tell MacDeath what you need him to
hear.
“Uh, yeah, they were,” Sarah says. She nods
quickly. “We carried them into the graveyard on
our way here.”
MacDeath’s shoulders slump. He stuffs the
hammer and spike back into his bag. “Fine,” he
agrees glumly. “You win.”
Whoa! Is that it? you think. Is MacDeath let-
ting you go? Was he really just a party enter-
tainer after all? But what about that lightning,
and the buggy birthday cake, and his big, blood-
dripping teeth?
He glances at his watch.
“Oops! I’m running late for my next party! I tell
you, I’ll be so glad when this summer job is over,”
he says.
He marches to the front door and pulls out the
spike.
“Well, happy birthday!” he calls as he steps out
the front door. “See you tomorrow!”
Tomorrow? What’s that supposed to mean?
Find out on PAGE 6.
‘y

D0
“Helllppp!” you scream.
The rat darts across the damp basement floor.
Toward your feet! It’s going to bite me, you think,
choking with fear.
The flashlight that Alex is holdi—n gth e only
light in the room — blinks out!
You’re standing in complete darkness — with a
rat racing toward your feet!
“Ahhhhh!” you scream. You rise up on your tip-
toes, trying to get as far off the floor as you can.
You hop from one foot to the other. You won’t let
that rat get you!
Alex fumbles with the flashlight, tapping it. Fi-
nally it blinks back on.
“Where’d the rat go?” you gasp, glancing in
every direction at once.
“TI don’t know,” Alex replies. “Let’s just get the
mouse and get out of here.”
Pick up the mouse on PAGE 91.

ol
“T’ll take the little box,” you announce to Dr.
MacDeath.
Why not? you think. It’s so small, how bad can
the present inside it be?
“Ah, yessss,” Dr. MacDeath hisses. He places
the small birthday present on the palm of his
hand. He bows at the waist and holds it out to you.
“Take it!”
You jump back as the blood from his teeth splat-
ters you in the face.
“Now open it!” he orders you loudly.
With trembling hands, you tear at the package.
Open it on PAGE 86.

OZ
You slam the door as hard as you can.
HONK!
“Uh-oh,” Mickey cries. He flinches. “You
slammed the door on the clown’s nose!”
“Ignore the clown,” Dr. MacDeath says. “Let’s
get down to business. The main activity for today
is giving you a scary birthday! Right?”
You glance over at Sarah, the human swan. This
birthday is pretty scary already, you think.
MacDeath opens his mouth wide in a grin. His
teeth drip that red stuff all over your living room
floor.
Gulp. What’s this guy’s deal, anyway? you won-
der.
Go on to PAGE 99.

D9
With your heart hammering, you leap out of the
bushes.
Yes! MacDeath is only ten feet away — and his
back is turned!
“Fire!” you shout, giving the signal to all your
friends.
Instantly everyone lets him have it.
POW! BLAM!
He whirls around, and you shoot him right in
the face.
KA-SPLAT!
“Aaaahhhh!” MacDeath cries. He sputters and
coughs.
It’s working! you think. He’s choking on the
stuff!
Pink, blue, yellow, and red paintballs explode
onto MacDeath. You fire until all your paintballs
are used up.
That’s when MacDeath stops coughing. He
glares at you with a stare of pure evil. Pure ha-
tred.
Oh, no! you think, watching his weapon closely.
His arm twitches. He’s about to fire that acid
stuff in your face!
Look out on PAGE 64!

o4
Alex is right. The pet store will take too long.
You’ve got to get back to your house — fast! —
and save Virginia!
But first, you have to win the scavenger hunt.
So you hurry to Alex’s house, a few blocks away,
hoping to find a dead mouse in his basement.
Alex grabs a flashlight from the kitchen. “The
lightbulb down there blew out the other day,” he
explains.
Great, you think. Just what you want to be do-
ing, checking out a mouse-infested basement — in
the dark.
The two of you tiptoe down the cellar steps.
It’s dark and smelly down there. His basement
has a concrete floor that’s always damp. There’s a
furnace, stacks and stacks of boxes, and lots of
pipes running all over the ceiling.
“Where's the mousetrap?” you whisper.
“In the corner,” Alex whispers back.
The flashlight he’s holding is so dim, it barely
lights the room. “The batteries are almost dead,”
Alex says as he shines it into the corner of the
room.
The weak beam of light falls on an object.
“Yikes!” you scream.
Find out what’s in the basement on PAGE 76.

DO
You step outside with the doll and the noose in
your hands. There’s an apple tree in Sarah’s yard,
which is right next door to your house. You hurry
there.
Quickly you climb the tree and throw the rope
over a limb near the main trunk.
An owl hoots in the distance.
“No — not there,” Alex calls from the ground.
“Put the noose out near the end of the branch and
hang her there.”
“Why?” you snap at Alex. Climbing this tree is
dangerous enough. Does he really want you to
risk your neck, climbing out to the end of the
limb?
“It will be more like a real hanging that way,”
Alex urges you. “We’ve got to convince MacDeath
that this is a real noose. Go on.”
Maybe Alex has a point. What should you do?
If you creep out to the end of the branch, turn to
PAGE 11.
Tf you play rt safe, turn to PAGE 78.

o6
You decide to play paintball. All your friends
love that game. You played last year for Alex’s
birthday.
And youre all totally good at it. You have a real
chance of winning!
“Paintball,” you announce to Dr. MacDeath.
“All right,” he says in a deep, spooky voice.
“Follow me.”
What are you waiting for? Follow him to PAGE
fp en

od
“Don’t give up yet,” you tell Alex.
You race back to your house and knock on the
back door.
CLICK. The dead bolt unlocks, and MacDeath
opens the door.
“What? You’re done already?” he asks, sound-
ing surprised.
“Uh, no,” you admit. “We need more time. Give
us a chance — please. We’ve got one good thing so
far.”
MacDeath narrows his bloodshot red eyes. He
seems to be considering.
“Let me se—e wh at have you got?” he asks,
holding out his hand.
You open the Chinese food carton and show him
your new purchase. “The mouse’s tongue,” you an-
nounce proudly.
MacDeath stares into the carton. Hard. Like
he’s trying to see something. Finally he lifts the
little gray animal up and peers into its mouth.
“Ha!” he laughs, throwing back his head. More
blood drips from his fanglike teeth. “This mouse
doesn’t even have a tongue!”
Turn to PAGE 95.

D8
“We'll take the last three things on the list,” you
decide. “Bones from a graveyard, the murderer’s
knife, and pretty poison. You guys get the other
stuff.”
“Okay,” Sarah agrees. “Meet you back here in
less than an hour.”
Sarah, Mickey, and Josh hurry down the drive-
way, toward Sarah’s house. Then Alex turns to
you with a worried expression on his face.
“The murderer’s knife is easy,” he announces.
“We can use my uncle’s fish-cleaning knife.”
You nod. Sounds good to you.
“And for the pretty poison, we can get a piece of
the bush in my backyard,” he continues. “It’s got
pink flowers on it. But my mom says the leaves
are poisonous.”
“Great!” you reply. “That’s two out of three.”
“But what are we going to do for the bones from
a graveyard?” Alex asks you.
You shiver and give Alex a solemn stare. What
choice do you have? There’s only one way to get
bones from a graveyard. ...
_ “But... you can’t mean ...” Alex stutters.
“Yes. We go to the Morston Cemetery,” you say
solemnly. “And dig some up.”
Head for the cemetery on PAGE 1138.

og
The blade on the hatchet gleams so brightly,
you can almost feel the sharp edge.
The clown grips it tightly and raises it over his
head.
“T’ve come to help,” the clown says mysteri-
ously.
Help? Great! you think.
Except for one thing. You can’t tell if he’s talk-
ing to you — or to Dr. MacDeath!
“No!” Virginia screams behind you. “Shut the
door! Shut the door before he kills us!”
What should you do?
If you shut the door, turn to PAGE 52.
If you don't, turn to PAGE 74.

60
You decide not to open the door.
Dr. MacDeath’s voice is so forceful you don’t
want to make him mad at you.
“Don’t look so miserable!” he orders you.
“You're supposed to be having fun! It’s your birth-
day party! A scary-birthday-to-you party! Smile!”
He opens his own hideous mouth in a big, fake
grin. His teeth drip that red stuff all over your liv-
ing room floor.
Heh-heh. Start having “fun” on PAGE 99.

61
Dr. MacDeath shakes his head solemnly.
“That is a question we must never answer,” he
says quietly. “For your own good.”
“But we do want to give you something,” his
dad offers. “A present. As a thank-you gift for all
you’ve done for me.”
“A present?” Alex asks suspiciously. “What is it?”
Barney walks to the front door and removes the
spike that was locking you in. “It’s waiting outside
for you,” he says, sounding like a television an-
nouncer. “It’s... anew car!”
“A new car?” You can’t believe your ears. Is he
kidding?
“Force of habit,” Barney explains. “I was a
game show host before I lost my head. So now I
give new cars to everyone!”
Cool! you think as you race outside to the curb.
Your friends all follow you excitedly. When they
see the car, everyone goes nuts. It’s one of those
really cool electric cars for kids. Except bigger.
Big enough for all your friends to ride in it at
once!
“Thanks!” you shout, jumping into the red elec-
tric car.
“Happy birthday!” Barney MacDurth calls as
you drive off. “And be sure to always remember
my advice!”
“What’s that?” you call from the driver’s seat.
“Stay away from streets marked DEAD END!”
THE END

62
Carefully you slide over to the tree’s trunk and
climb out of the tree. Whew! That was scary. But
at least you’re safe on the ground now.
“Let’s get out of here,” you tell Alex.
Then the two of you hurry back to your house.
You walk up your driveway quietly, carrying the
bag. Inside is the dead mouse, the turnip, and the
noose. Three for three.
You might actually win this game.
“Where is everyone else?” you whisper to Alex.
You thought Sarah, Josh, and Mickey would be
back by now with their scavenger hunt things.
Alex is about to answer, when you feel a hand
on your shoulder. You twist your head just a bit to
see who it is.
Yikes! Your heart leaps into your throat.
Resting on your shoulder is the horrible, long,
bony hand — of a skeleton!
Scream on PAGE 42.

63
“Aaaaahhhhh!” you hear yourself scream.
“Nooooo! Please! Don’t!”
You shiver at the sound of your voice. It’s filled
with pain. You glance at the cover of the CD again
and read the title.
It says simply: YOUR FUTURE.
No! you think with a chill. It can’t be. Can it?
Then you hear another voice you recognize —
Sarah’s!
“Don’t leave me in here!” she cries on the CD.
“No! Stop that! Owwwww!”
Sarah’s eyes pop open wide. “Take that off!” she
screams, covering her ears to block out the sound.
Dr. MacDeath simply walks over to the CD
player — and turns it up. “Let’s listen to the
whole thing — several times,” he says, laughing
cruelly. “Unless...”
“Unless what?” you ask.
“Unless you’d like to open some more pre-
sents,” he answers with a wicked smile.
Yeah, you think. Anything is better than listen-
ing to yourself being tortured!
Isn’t it?
Find out on PAGE 69.

64
Your hands fly up to protect your face from the
blast.
But peering between your fingers, you see
MacDeath throw down his weapon.
“Look what you’ve done!” MacDeath cries, ges-
turing at his paint-splattered body. “You’ve ru-
ined me! How am I supposed to scare anyone
looking like this?”
Wow, you think, staring at him. He’s right! He’s
covered in so many bright colors, he looks ridicu-
lous.
He couldn’t scare a three-year-old looking like
that!
MacDeath’s shoulders slump and he drags his
feet as he slinks away.
“I’m ruined,” he repeats, mumbling it over and
over.
He walks off and disappears into the night.
“We did it!” Sarah cheers. “We got rid of him!
Finally, we can all go home!”
“Home?” You stare at them. “But what about
the rest of my party?”
.
Turn to PAGE 77.

65
“Noo000000.”
A moaning voice in the distance calls to you,
warning you to stay away.
“Go-0-0-0-0-0.”
“What was that?” Alex asks.
You shrug. “Probably just wind,” you say, try-
ing to convince yourself. “Let’s get the bones and
get out of here.”
You hear leaves rustling. The sound of foot-
steps. Someone — or something — coming close.
You freeze.
“Did you hear that?” you whisper as softly as
you can.
Alex nods. “Forget the bones. Let’s get out of
here.”
“No. We need them,” you say. “To win the scav-
enger hunt.”
“N000000000.”
The moaning sound again. Closer this time.
Alex turns to run.
“Wait!” you blurt out. But before you can stop
him, you feel something clawing at your back.
It feels like the sharp, pointy fingernails of Dr.
MacDeath! Oh, no! He’s followed you here!
You shriek as MacDeath knocks you to the
ground.
Fall onto PAGE 109.

66
You're good at dodgeball. That’s another one of
the reasons you picked this game. You thought
you could probably win.
Quickly, on instinct, you dodge the bomb.
Whoops! Big mistake.
The bomb rolls under the couch and gets stuck
in the back corner, near the wall.
“You idiot!” Dr. MacDeath cries. His face turns
even paler. “You were supposed to catch it — and
throw it outside!”
A moment later...
KA-BOOM!
Well, you dodged the bomb, all right.
Too bad your chances of having a happy birth-
day just blew up in your face!
THE END

It’s a tough choice. But you decide on the skele-
ton hand. You reach out and grab it.
“This one,” you say. “The bones from a grave-
yard.”
Dr. MacDeath takes the skeleton hand from you
and sniffs it. Then his mouth twists into a mocking
sneer.
“Ha!” he cries. “Those aren’t from a graveyard!
These bones have never been buried! I win! I
win!”
Noooo! you think. MacDeath lifts the hammer
and spike again.
He’s going to nail the back door shut! Locking
your parents out!
Hurry to PAGE 49— and stop him, before he
locks you in forever!

68
It takes a minute for your eyes to adjust to the
dark. :
Inside, the haunted house is a maze of rooms.
Most of them are draped in cobwebs. A dim, eerie
greenish light glows from somewhere down a long
hall.
“Josh?” you call again.
No answer.
Oh, man, you think. Where did he go?
You take a few cautious steps forward and gulp.
You know where the green glow is coming from,
you realize.
The floor. It’s covered with something unreal.
Something that looks like it came out of a
GOOSEBUMPS book.
It’s a green glob of shimmering, jiggling,
goop...
Monster blood!
Oh, boy. You have a bad feeling about this.
A door stands half open at the end of the hall.
Josh could be in there. But you have to cross over
the monster blood to get there. There’s also a
huge ballroom to your right. It’s very dark inside,
but you can see fake, filmy white ghosts whirling
around on the dance floor. But then you notice that
one of the dancers looks more like a kid. A real kid.
Could it be Josh?
If you search for Josh in the long hallway, turn
to PAGE 128.
Tf you enter the ballroom, turn to PAGE 26.

69
“T’ll open some more presents!” you yell. “Just
shut that off!”
You shout at Dr. MacDeath to be heard above
the sounds of the horrible CD.
“I knew you'd see it my way,” he mutters. He
slurps a little to suck up the red stuff dripping
from his teeth.
“So, my little birthday friend — what will it be?
More presents from your friends? Or from me?”
If you open more presents from your friends,
turn to PAGE 45.
If you open presents from Dr. MacDeath, turn
to PAGE 75.

710
Congratulations — you won the game!
You came up with a noose that really was used
to hang someone.
Unfortunately, the “someone” was you!
Oh, well. So you sort of choked when you had to
choose a scavenger hunt item. Don’t get all hung
up about it. Just remember that if you want to es-
cape Dr. MacDeath, you’d better not stick your
neck out so far next time!
THE END

71
Dr. MacDeath pulls off his long, sharp, pointy
fingernails.
“Oh, no,” he whines again. “Why did you have to
throw that thing through the window, kid? You
got me in big trouble now!”
You don’t know what to say. You and Alex just
stare at him.
You know yov’re both thinking the same thing.
How come MacDeath sounds so... so ordinary all
of a sudden? And how come he looks like such a
wimp?
You glance back outside, at the bomb.
It’s just sitting there. In the pansies. It hasn’t
exploded.
Mrs. Jancovich walks to her flower bed and
picks up the bomb. She turns it over in her hands.
Then she marches up to your back door and rings
the bell.
Open the door on PAGE 10.

(2
Dr. MacDeath leads you to the back door.
There he opens his black cloth bag. He takes out
six black plastic paintball weapons and six hel-
mets with visors. He passes them out to you and
your friends.
“Here’s your ammunition,” he explains, handing
~ you a large backpack filled with different colored
paintballs.
You put the backpack on.
Then Dr. MacDeath takes his own paintball gun
out of the bag.
“Whoa!” Mickey cries when he sees it.
You gulp.
Dr. MacDeath’s weapon! It’s shiny and silver. It
looks like — you gulp — like a real gun!
Dr. MacDeath sneers at you. He laces his long
fingers through the trigger mechanism of the gun.
And aims it right at your head!
Duck on PAGE 180.

13
You glance down. No way! You are not going
out on some shaky limb. You decide to hang the
doll right where you are.
You slip the noose around the doll’s neck and
prepare to drop her from the branch.
CRRREEEAAK!
You freeze. What was that? The branch you’re
on shakes dangerously beneath you. “Alex—
something’s happening. You have to help me
down. Now.”
But before he can answer, the limb begins to
splinter under your weight.
CRAAACCCK!
“Helllpppp!” you scream. The whole world
seems to fall out from under you. You hurtle
toward the ground.
Whoops!
Looks like this is one time when, instead of
playing it safe, you should have gone out on a
limb!
THE END

14
“Shut the door!” Virginia screams again.
But you don’t. You let the hatchet-wielding
clown in.
He said he came to help... didn’t he?
You swallow hard, hoping and praying that he
wants to help you.
The clown glances down at you. “Get out of the
way,” he orders you in a no-nonsense tone of voice.
Then he turns to check over his shoulder.
“Come on!” he calls, motioning to someone be-
hind him. “I’m in!”
Find out who's crashing your party on PAGE 98.

19
“T’ll open one of your presents,” you tell Dr.
MacDeath. You stare at the three wrapped birth-
day gifts he set before you.
Which one should you open?
The little tiny one? It’s the size of a box that
would hold a pair of earrings.
Or the middle one? It’s the size of a birthday
cake box.
Or the large one? It’s big enough to hold a tele-
vision. ...
If you open the smallest box, turn to PAGE 51.
If you open the medium-size box, turn to
PAGE 78.
If you open the big box, turn to PAGE 107.

16
“Whoa!” Alex cries. “What’s that?”
He stumbles backwards, and so do you.
There, in the corner of the basement, is the
mouse. Caught in the mousetrap. Dead.
It’s pretty gross — but that’s not what scares
you.
What scares you is the RAT! The live rat sitting
next to it!
You panic and jump back with a small scream.
You hate rats. They’re fearless animals. Rats can
come right up to you, bite you, and give you ra-
bies!
“How did that thing get in here?” Alex cries.
“We don’t have RATS!”
You stare at the animal. There’s something
dripping from its pointed teeth. Which kind of re-
minds you of — MacDeath!
His evil laugh rings in your head. Could he have
something to do with this? you wonder. Could he
be using whatever magical powers he has to keep
you from winning the scavenger hunt? You don’t
have time to figure it out.
* Because the rat charges straight toward you!
Turn to PAGE 50.

C7
“The rest of your party?” Virginia asks, her
eyes open wide. “You mean you want us to stay —
after all of this?”
“Yeah,” you nod. “It’s still my birthday.”
Virginia glances at Sarah. Sarah shrugs.
“Hey, why not?” the girls both agree.
“We've still got all this cool paintball stuff,”
Sarah adds. “Let’s have a paintball war!”
“Cool!” Josh yells, shooting a fist into the air. “A
paintball war — with no one home! This is the
best!”
Yeah, you think. It is.
And this may turn out to be the best birthday
you’ve ever had!
THE END

18
Slowly, you lift the medium-size box — the one
that’s about the size of a bakery box — and pull it
toward you.
Whoa, you think. It’s heavy.
It lands in your lap with a thud.
“What’s in there?” you ask Dr. MacDeath ner-
vously. “It... it smells funny.”
MacDeath doesn’t answer. He simply smiles
and smoothes his bald head with the palm of his
hand.
“Open it,” he says, speaking more softly than
you expected.
Eww, you think. The longer it sits in your lap,
the worse it smells.
In fact, it stinks!
Slowly, you tear at the blue-and-white wrap-
ping paper. Inside, you find just what you
thought — a bakery box.
Maybe it’s another birthday cake. A rancid one.
“What is it?” Alex asks, moving in closer.
You shrug and run your fingernail under the
edges of the lid, to loosen the tape.
* Then you lift the lid.
Find out what’s inside on PAGE 125.

uo
“Here — catch!” you scream. You throw the
bomb back to Dr. MacDeath.
He catches it without even thinking.
Instantly, his eyes open wide in horror.
“NO!” he cries. “Not to me, you fool!”
He opens his hands to drop the bomb. But it’s
too late.
The thing explodes.
You’re expecting a huge KA-BOOM.
But =h
Turn to PAGE 108.

80
There is a way to get blood from a turnip — and
you think you know what it is. Cut into it with a
murderer’s knife.
“Alex — give me your uncle’s fish knife, quick!”
you say.
MacDeath gasps. And steps back.
Weird, you think. He seems afraid!
You kneel on the ground and hold the turnip
tightly, so it won’t roll away. Then you slice into
the hard white vegetable with the blade of the
murderer’s knife.
To your surprise, thick red blood runs down the
edge of the cut!
Dr. MacDeath backs away in horror.
“You idiots!” he cries. “You’ve ruined all my
fun!”
“This is my birthday too, you see,” he contin-
ues. “The one night of the year when I have the
power to truly terrify kids! And now you’ve won
the game — and spoiled it! I hate you! Hate you! I
won't be able to do this again for a whole year!”
_ You gasp as you stare at MacDeath’s face. It’s
starting to change!
Turn to PAGE 105.

Sl
Your heart pounds as you catch the bomb.
Now what? It could explode any second!
You juggle it in your hands.
Think fast again!
Tf you toss it out the window, turn to PAGE 14.
If you toss it back to Dr. MacDeath, turn to
PAGE 79.

82
All at once you realize something.
It would be kind of fun to be Dr. MacDeath’s as-
sistant!
Hey — why not? You’d get to spend time wear-
ing scary makeup. And dressing up in black
clothes. And going to lots and lots of birthday par-
ties. And MacDeath wouldn’t be scaring you any-
more.
So that’s what you do. Except that slowly you
begin to change things a bit.
Instead of the birthday cake full of live mice,
bugs, and worms, you bring a dark chocolate cake.
It has thick raspberry sauce in the middle so it
looks like blood when you cut into it. But it tastes
good and doesn’t freak anybody out — too much.
Instead of twisting the party guests into bal-
loon animals, you bring black balloons — and
twist them into skeletons.
Instead of playing dodgeball with hand gre-
nades, you play it with harmless black smoke
bombs. It surprises everyone, but no one gets
hurt.
Little by little, the birthday kids start to like
you better than Dr. MacDeath — and eventually,
you put him out of business!
That’s right, you’ve become the life — er, death
of the party!
Which makes this
THE HAPPIEST END OF ALL!

83
Dr. MacDeath unlocks the back door.
“Oh, one more thing,” he warns before he lets
you out. “You’ve only got an hour. If you’re not
done by then, you lose!”
“No fair!” Josh complains.
MacDeath reaches out and grabs Josh. “Maybe
you'd like to stay here with me too!”
The long, sharp spikes on MacDeath’s fingers
scrape the skin on Josh’s arm.
“Owww! Let me go!” Josh screams.
“Yes — go!” MacDeath shouts.
Then he slams the back door. And locks it.
“Wow,” Alex cries. “You’re locked out of your
own house!”
Then, from inside, you hear a girl scream.
Virginia!
Turn to PAGE 120.

84
Dr. MacDeath throws his head back and laughs
menacingly.
“The right answer?” he booms. “You want the
right answer? Ha-ha-ha-ha! There 7s no right an-
swer, you fools!”
“That’s not fair!” Virginia repeats angrily.
MacDeath scowls and narrows his bloodshot
eyes at her.
“Fine,” he says to her. “T’ll play fair. P’ll let you
start over and play another game. It'll be fun —
since I just love watching you lose! Ha-ha-ha-ha!”
Then he points that long, sharp, metal-spiked
fingernail at your face again.
“What will it be?” he asks you. “Do you want to
do the scavenger hunt again? Or play something
different?”
“We want to go home!” Virginia yells.
“No way,” MacDeath says. He swipes his long,
sharp nails at Virginia, just missing her cheek.
“But I will give you another chance. You can start
over on the scavenger hunt, or you can play paint-
ball. Which is it?”
If you want to play paintball, turn to PAGE 56.
If you want to start over with the scavenger
hunt, turn to PAGE 102.

85
You pick the first thing that pops into your mind.
“Party games,” you answer in a trembling
voice.
MacDeath smiles. “Good.” He rubs his hands to-
gether. You glance down and cry out in surprise.
Long, sharp spikes are shooting out of his finger-
nails!
“Ouch!” he cries. “I scratched myself!”
He puts his hand to his mouth and sucks the
wound.
You and your friends stare in terror.
“All right—here’s how it works,” Dr.
MacDeath says. “We play games...until you
win! If you succeed, if you win just one of my
games, I'll leave. You’ll never see me again. But
until you win,” he gives an evil chuckle, “I will
sta—y an d fill your world with fea— reve n if
that means staying forever!”
You gulp. An eternity with Dr. MacDeath?
Nothing could be more horrible!
“Now,” MacDeath says. “What game do you want
to play? Pin the Tail on the Donkey? Paintball?
Dodgeball? Or shall we have a scavenger hunt?”
You glance at Alex for help. But he just shrugs.
“It’s your birthday,” he says. “You choose.”
If you play Pin the Tail on the Donkey, turn to
PAGE 17.
Tf you choose paintball, turn to PAGE 56.
If you choose dodgeball, turn to PAGE 24.
If you want the scavenger hunt, turn to PAGE 96.

86
“Hey — cool!” you shout when you see what’s
inside the smallest box. “It’s two tickets to Horror
Place!”
Horror Place is an amusement park. You’ve al-
ways wanted to go there.
“Yes! Take me with you!” Josh demands.
Ube:
“Okay,” you agree. “Let’s go.”
Hey, you think. Horror Place is so cool! Maybe
this birthday won’t turn out to be so bad after all!
Hurry to Horror Place on PAGE 23.

oN
You glance at the scavenger hunt items. None
of them are quite right, you realize. You’ve got a
whole mouse — not a mouse’s tongue. You’ve got
poison, but it’s not pretty.
Then there’s the skeleton’s hand. You’re pretty
sure those bones were never buried in a grave-
yard. They probably came from a science lab.
That leaves the noose. You went to a lot of trou-
ble to hang Stephanie, the doll. You at least tried
to make it into a noose and not just a dumb old
rope.
You pick up the noose and hold it out to Dr.
MacDeath.
“No, no, no!” MacDeath cries. “I don’t even
have to sniff that thing. I know it hasn’t been used
to hang someone — yet! But we can fix that!”
Uh-oh. From the glint in his eyes, it looks as if
Dr. MacDeath wants to hang you!
No! you want to cry out at the top of your lungs.
But before you can run or scream, he grabs you!
Turn to PAGE 70.

88
Dr. MacDeath spins you around and around.
Faster and faster.
“Hey!” you cry. “Stop! ’m getting dizzy!”
“That’s the idea!” He cheers.
Finally he stops spinning you. He points you in
some direction and tells you to go.
The blindfold is so tight you can feel it leaving
marks on your forehead. You can’t possibly use
your old trick of tilting your head back so you can
peek out from under the cloth.
Please, you silently pray. Please let me pin the
tail on the right place. Then I’ll win and Dr.
MacDeath will leave us alone!
You stumble forward. Arms outstretched.
Finally you feel the cardboard cutout. You stick
the tail on the animal.
“Ah-ha-ha-ha!” MacDeath cackles. “You lose!”
No! you think. Then you hear a sound. GRRRR-
BRRRER:.
What’s that? A growl? Where is the sound com-
ing from?
You don’t have to wonder long. Under your
hand, you feel the cardboard ee.
_ Into fur!
Pull off your blindfold on PAGE 98.

39
Suddenly the candles on your cake flare up. The
whole room is filled with huge, blindingly bright
flames.
It’s so bright, you can’t see anything but a hot
white light.
Just for a second.
Then the candles sizzle and go out in a puff of
smoke.
You blink. Your eyes hurt a little.
But when the smoke clears, you see something
amazing.
Standing there in the room with you is the old
bald man. The man whose head was in the bakery
box.
Except that now his head is sitting on top of his
body!
He looks normal — and alive!
“Thank you,” he says, rushing up to clap you on
the shoulders. “You did it! You saved my life!”
You don’t know what to say. You’re stunned
silent.
“What’s going on?” Alex cries.
“That’s easy to explain,” Dr. MacDeath says,
smiling at you.
You glance at MacDeath and do a double take.
His face suddenly looks normal too. No green make-
up. No slash marks. No red rims around his eyes.
“This is my dad,” Dr. MacDeath says, gesturing
to the man whose head was in the bakery box.
Meet Dr. MacDeath’s dad on PAGE 94.

90
“Is that really a murder weapon?” you whisper
to Mickey.
He nods. “My dad used it to kill a rattlesnake
when we were camping last year,” he whispers
back.
“Yes!” Josh shouts. “We did it! We won!”
“Not so fast!” Dr. MacDeath slams the knife
down on the table. “First you must prove that the
rest of these items meet my very high standards!
And if they don’t — you will lose! You’ll all be my
prisoners in a world of endless horror — forever!”
He picks up the red vegetable you brought and
shoves it into your face.
“What, might I ask, is this supposed to be?” he
demands.
It’s a turnip, you think, shaking in fear. Isn’t it?
Show MacDeath how you got blood from a
turnip on PAGE 33.

vi
Slowly, you tiptoe over to the corner. The
mouse just lies there. Dead.
Alex finds a brown paper bag. Then he holds the
bag open on the floor. You use your toe to push the
mouse inside.
Whew. One item on the list down, two to go.
You and Alex creep up the basement stairs with
the bag.
“What’s next?” he asks you quietly.
“Now we need to get blood from a turnip,” you
Say.
Alex shrugs. “I don’t get it. How are we sup-
posed to do that? Turnips don’t bleed.”
“Maybe MacDeath is trying to trick us,” you
mutter. “Maybe it’s impossible to get blood from a
turnip.”
Alex nods. “That’s what I was thinking. Let’s go
back to your house. We can see if Virginia is okay.
And we can tell Dr. MacDeath that his game isn’t
fair,” he says.
You’re plenty worried about Virginia. But
telling MacDeath that his game isn’t fair? Hmmm.
Does that sound like a good idea to you?
If you tell MacDeath his game isn't farr, turn to
PAGE 46.
If you try to get blood from a turnip, turn to
PAGE 117.

92
The monster blood sucks you onto your back.
“Help!” you cry.
The green glob oozes up around your shoulders.
Your face. Toward your mouth.
Smothering you.
“Aaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhh!”
You let out the scream of a lifetime. Pure terror
fills your voice. Your throat.
LLZLLT!
You blink as all the lights in the house flip on.
Blinding you.
When your eyes adjust, you see a dark form
towering above you.
Turn to PAGE 31.

Your mouth falls open when you see two men
racing up your front steps.
It’s the police! Yes!
Dr. MacDeath lets out an angry groan. He be-
gins to back away. “Spoilsport,” he mutters, glar-
ing at the clown.
The police push past you while the clown holds
the door open. They grab MacDeath before he can
run out your back door.
“Dr. MacDeath, you’re under arrest,” one of the
officers declares, clamping handcuffs on the ghoul-
ish man.
Most of your friends are speechless with shock.
All except Alex.
“What’s going on here?” he blurts out.
“I can answer that,” the clown responds. He
puts down the hatchet.
Read the answer on PAGE 48.

94
“Thank you,” the man says again. “I’m Barney
MacDurth — that’s our real name. Not MacDeath.
I’m sorry we had to spoil your birthday, but you
were the only kid we could count on.”
“Huh?” you say, not peicag Spe “Count on
for what?”
“To help us,” Dr. MacDeath Seplaintl “See, my
dad’s head got separated from his body on his
birthday, exactly twelve years ago. Since then,
I’ve been trying to figure out how to help him. I
discovered there was only one way to get him put
back togethe—r i f somebody born on my dad’s
birthday would wish for it. On a birthday cake.”
This is too unreal. “Why didn’t you just tell
someone what happened and ask them to wish for
you?” you question MacDeath.
“IT tried that last year. But the magic didn’t
work that way,” he explains.
“So we planned this birthday party for you.”
Barney MacDurth picks up the story. “We chose
you— o f all the kids with this birthd—a bye -
cause we knew you liked horror. We figured you
wouldn’t freak out when you saw me in the bakery
bax.”
“And you did it,” MacDeath says, date you
on the shoulders again. “You saved my dad’s life!”
“But... but...but,” you sputter, “how did
your head get cut off from your body like that?
And why didn’t you die?”
Turn to PAGE 61.

95
MacDeath drops the little mouse back into the
Chinese food container.
“No tongue?” you repeat, squinting at the
mouse.
“No,” MacDeath says with a laugh. “I know —
because I bought that same mouse last week.
When I got it home, I realized it was defective. No
tongue. So I took it back to the store.”
A defective mouse? Weird.
“Can we have more time?” you beg Dr.
MacDeath. “Please?”
“No!” MacDeath booms. “Time’s up. I win!”
He gives you an evil smile. “Now it’s time to
choose another game!”
Go back to PAGE 85 and choose another game.

96
“We want the scavenger hunt,” you decide.
Inside, youre trembling. This birthday is a
nightmare! But scavenger hunts are easy. All you
have to do is go out and find everything on the list,
then bring it all back to Dr. MacDeath.
If you do, you'll win. And he’ll leave. You hope.
“Yes!” Dr. MacDeath cries. “I love a good scav-
enger hunt!” He reaches into his black bag and
pulls out a sheet of paper.
You and your friends read the scavenger hunt
list. There are six items on it:
1. A mouse’s tongue
. Blood from a turnip
. A noose used to hang someone
. Bones from a graveyard
. A murderer’s knife
WLOwOW e
6. Pretty poison
Heew, you think. What kind of a list is that?
“Wow,” Mickey exclaims. “If we’re going to find
all that stuff, you have to let us leave the house!”
Dr. MacDeath narrows his eyes at Mickey. “All
right,” he says in his booming voice. “You may
leave the house — but only on one condition.”
Find out what it is on PAGE 32.

ot
You choke back a gagging feeling in your
throat.
Your friends gather around and peer into the
box.
“Okay,” you manage to say to the head. “TI’ll help
you. But how?”
“Find the rest of my body,” the head begs you.
“And put my head back on it.”
Huh? How are you supposed to do that? you
wonder.
“Do it!” Dr. MacDeath shouts. “Or Ill put your
head in a bakery box too!”
You swallow hard.
“What should I do?” you ask meekly.
“Dig it up,” the head says flatly. “It’s buried
next door —in Mrs. Jancovich’s flower garden.”
Whoa.
Are you really going to dig up a dead, headless
body?
Or maybe there’s some other way out of this
mess. ...
Like lighting the candles on your birthday
cake — and making a wish.
You do believe in birthday wishes, don’t you?
If you dig up the dead body, turn to PAGE 36.
Tf you try to get out of this mess by wishing on
your birthday cake, turn to PAGE 138.

98
You yank the blindfold off. And scream.
Standing before you is a hideous, giant dog-
creature — with six tails on it, all stuck in the
wrong places!
It’s alive! The cardboard beast has come alive!
It crouches down and lowers its head. Oh, no!
It’s going to attack!
Face the beast on PAGE 101.

Uo
“So what shall we do first?” MacDeath snarls at
you. “Open presents? Play games? Eat cake?”
No one answers. Your friends are all frozen in
fear.
You still can’t decide if this guy’s a clown — or a
madman.
“T think [ll go home now,” Virginia finally says
in a meek voice. You can see she’s trembling, but
she marches toward the front door.
With only two steps, Dr. MacDeath reaches the
front door ahead of her and blocks her way.
“No one leaves,” he says. His voice sounds
deeper and more evil than ever. “Understand? No
one!”
“You can’t keep us here!” Mickey challenges.
“Oh, no? Just watch me!”
MacDeath reaches into his pocket and pulls out
a hammer and two long metal spikes. With one
whack, he pounds the spikes into the door — nail-
ing them to the door frame so you can’t get out!
Then he reaches into his pocket and pulls out a
key.
“And this, my little friends, is the key to the
back door,” he announces. “So don’t even try to es-
cape that way!”
You’re trapped! Try to deal with it on PAGE 35.

100
“Uh, I’m going to open Alex’s present,” you de-
cide.
“Good choice,” Alex mutters under his breath,
giving you an encouraging nod.
You grab the colorfully wrapped package that
he tossed you when he arrived.
Then all your friends gather around to watch.
Your hands shake as you try to tear off the
wrapping.
How come you have the feeling that there’s
something creepy inside? It’s just a bunch of video
games or something... right?
Finally you break the ribbon and pull off the
birthday paper.
“CDs!” you exclaim. “Cool! Thanks, Alex!”
But then you see the shocked expression on
Alex’s face. He’s staring at the CDs in your hands.
You glance down at them and gasp.
There’s a picture of you on the cover of one!
You — chained up in some kind of torture cham-
ber!
Find out what this is all about on PAGE 8.

101
The six-tailed dog leaps at you.
That’s it, you think. I’m done for. This beast is
going to eat me! You squeeze your eyes shut,
waiting for the feel of its sharp fangs.
But nothing happens.
You open your eyes. The dog’s tongue is hang-
ing out of its mouth.
“Ruff!” It yips as if it’s happy to see you. Wait a
minute — maybe this dog wants to be friends.
“G-g-good doggie,” you stammer. “Good boy.”
“Ruff!” the dog barks again.
Hey, this is working! you think. Except for one
thing. The friendly dog begins to wag its tails —
all of them.
“Help! Run!” your friends scream, backing
away.
But you can’t run. The room is too small — and
the dog is too big. One tail after another smacks
you and everyone else in the head. Face. Arms
and legs.
Each blow feels like you’re being conked with a
heavy board.
Unfortunately, you’re being wagged to a pulp!
Oh, well. Looks like you were barking up the
wrong tree when you chose this party game! Next
time, pick a different one. But for now, you’ve got
to admit that you’ve come to...
THE TAIL END.

102
Your heart pounds as you make your choice.
You hope you’re making the right decision. The
one that will get Dr. MacDeath out of your house
and out of your life — forever.
“We'll do the scavenger hunt again,” you tell
him in a shaky voice.
MacDeath crouches down and whispers in your
ear. “Since I’m feeling generous, here’s a hint,” he
says, sounding meaner than ever. “There is only
one way to get blood from a turnip. Cut the turnip
open with a murderer’s knife. If you do, it will ac-
tually bleeeeed!”
You shiver at the tone in his voice. When he
says the word bleed, he sounds like he’s really en-
joying it.
But is he telling you the truth? There’s no way
to be sure.
“Okay — let’s go,” Josh says. You can tell he’s
eager to get out of the house.
“Hold on,” you say. “We’re going to break into
different teams this time.”
Turn to PAGE 58.

103
You gaze upward. Dr. MacDeath is huge! Twice
as big as he was before!
He towers above you, as tall as the streetlights.
His body casts an enormous shadow that darkens
your face.
“Hellllp!” you scream, terrified. You hope some-
one will hear you. Hear you and come out of his or
her house to save you.
“Get him!” Sarah yells. She fires her paint gun
at MacDeath.
Sarah’s not a great shot, though. The paint hits
him on the knee and splatters into the street. It
pools around his feet.
In anger, Dr. MacDeath steps forward to grab
Sarah. But he steps right into the puddle of slip-
pery, slimy, pink paint.
“Whoa!” MacDeath cries, losing his balance as
his huge feet slide out from under him.
Whoa is right! MacDeath slips on the paint and
crashes to the ground on top of you — with
enough force to squash you flat.
You and all your friends!
But don’t worry. You can always start the book
again, choose a different game next time, and
keep reading until you find an ending that doesn’t
fall so flat! In other words...
A GOOD ENDING!

104
MacDeath rolls his eyes again. “You little
creeps are going to be the MacDeath of me!” he
jokes.
Ha-ha, you think. This guy’s really funny —
NOT.
MacDeath lifts Sarah up and untwists her arms
and legs. Pretty soon she looks like a girl again.
You sigh in relief. He did it! Maybe the guy isn’t
seriously freaky after all.
Then he opens the bakery box and takes out a
big, fancy birthday cake with lots of roses. Your
name is written on top.
“Now cut it!” MacDeath orders you in a boom-
ing voice.
You lift the knife and slice through the thick
white icing. Then you start to lift the piece of cake
onto a plate.
“Aaaahhhh!” you scream as you remove the
first slice.
Bugs, worms, and mice slither out of the cake.
They crawl and wriggle all over your dining room
table! ,
Escape from the creepy crawlers on PAGE 119.

105
Slowly, the red rims around MacDeath’s eyes
disappear. Now his eyes just look tired. His teeth
stop dripping blood, and their points vanish. His
long, spiky fingernails fall off, leaving only short,
stubby fingers with chewed nails.
Hunched over and normal-looking, he drags
himself into your house to get his black bag.
“You kids are a rotten bunch,” he mutters on his
way down the driveway. “See if I ever come to one
of your parties again!”
He walks off into the night.
“We did it! We won!” Josh and Mickey shout,
slapping each other high fives.
You and Alex give each other high fives too.
“Way to go,” Alex says. “And, hey — now we can
have areal party — with no one home! Let’s order
pizza!”
You nod. But before you can dial the number,
the doorbell rings.
“Who's that?” Alex asks, opening the door.
Standing there is a guy dressed up in a magi-
cian’s black coat and top hat. He has a strange look
in his eyes.
“Good evening,” he says in a spooky voice.
“Where’s the birthday kid? I’m here to create a
very special party.”
Uh-oh. Looks like this Scary Birthday isn’t over
yet!
THE END

106
“Okay— Ill stay,” you decide. “I'll stay with
Dr. MacDeath. You guys can go on the scavenger
hunt.”
“Cool!” Josh says, instantly heading for the
door.
Oh, man, you think. Your friends beat it out of
there as fast as they can.
They’re never coming back! you realize.
Your breathing practically stops as you face the
brutal truth: You’re stuck with Dr. MacDeath.
Alone. Maybe forever.
You cringe as you notice more blood dripping
from his teeth. You stare at the scars across his
face.
He’s so ugly. So totally scary. Too scary.
“Pretty good party, eh, kid?” he mumbles.
Is he kidding? you wonder. He thinks scaring
you and your friends to death is fun?
He must be totally nuts, you decide. Wacko.
I’ve got to get out of the house, you think.
Somehow.
Then all of a sudden you get an idea.
‘ A brilliant idea.
Turn to PAGE 20.

107
You point to the big birthday present. The
largest box.
“That one,” you decide nervously. “I’ll open that
one.”
“Oh, goody,” Dr. MacDeath says, rubbing his
hands together.
He pushes the large present toward you. His
long, spiky fingernails scratch and tear the wrap-
ping paper a little as he does.
“Sorry,” he says with a chuckle. “But I thought
you might need a little help getting started.”
“Uh — thanks,” you answer.
With a yank, you untie the ugly green ribbons.
Then you tear off the shiny black wrapping paper.
“Open it! Now!” Dr. MacDeath commands you
forcefully.
“I’m trying!” you answer. You pull on the lid of
the brown cardboard box inside. But it’s taped
shut.
You struggle to tear the tape with your finger-
nails, but it won’t come open. Finally you bite it
with your teeth.
Your heart pounds, terrified about what might
spring out at you as you lift the lid....
Find out what’s inside on PAGE 127.

108
The bomb in Dr. MacDeath’s hand explodes —
and shoots out a powerful spray of liquid. It cov-
ers his face. His clothes. His body.
“Kwww!” your friends instantly cry when they
smell the stuff that’s shooting out of the hand
grenade.
“What is that?” Virginia screams, wrinkling up
her nose and face.
“Skunk!” Mickey cries.
A stink bomb? Filled with skunk oil? Vicious!
Even Dr. MacDeath can’t stand the smell! He
runs toward the back door, unlocks it, and takes
off down the street. Your friends sprint out right
after him. Leaving you all alone — on your birth-
day!
Well, you’re not stuck with MacDeath anymore.
But talk about a horrible party! This is one birth-
day bash that really stinks!
THE END

109
“Ow!”
You hit the cold, wet earth with a thud.
For a moment, you lie there. Dazed. Confused.
Then you feel the scratchy claws on your back
again. And a wet tongue on your face! Wait a
minute — wet tongue?
In the moonlight, you see the silhouette — of a
dog! A big, fuzzy golden retriever. He licks your
face and nudges you with his slimy nose.
“Hey, get off of me!” you whisper.
“You okay?” Alex calls from the street.
“Come back,” you call. “I think I found what we
came for!”
Alex tiptoes back into the graveyard. Quickly
you explain to him that the dog has wet, muddy
paws— s o you think he’s been burying a bone
somewhere. Probably nearby. If you can find it
and dig it up, you'll have a bone from the grave-
yard!
“No way,” Alex says. “It’s got to be human
bones — from a real grave — or we won’t win the
scavenger hunt.”
~ Really? Did MacDeath say human bones?
You can’t remember. All you know is that Vir-
ginia is alone at your house with that creep. So
you’ve got to hurry!
If you want to dig up the dog bone, turn to
PAGE 131.
Tf you want to dig up a human grave, turn to
PAGE 438.

110
A way to get blood from a turnip.
What is it?
If you’ve played this scavenger hunt before,
you might know the answer.
Maybe you should tell Dr. MacDeath to bite into
it. That way, that red stuff dripping from his fangs
will get on the turnip —and make it look like
there’s blood inside.
Or maybe you should just cut into it with the
murderer’s knife and hope for the best.
You decide.
If you tell Dr. MacDeath to bite into the turnip,
turn to PAGE 182.
If you cut into the turnip with the murderer’s
knife, turn to PAGE 80.

111
You edge closer to the dancing ghosts. The mu-
sic plays on, louder. The ghosts dance faster. Some
kind of strange waltz.
“Josh!” you cry. “What’s going on?”
“Don’t let the ghosts touch you!” Josh warns.
“They’re real! And their grips are like iron! They
won't let you go!”
“Okay!” you agree, backing away gratefully.
“But how did you get in here? What’s going on?
Why are you dancing?”
“She offered to teach me the waltz,” Josh says
sheepishly. “I thought it would be fun.”
The waltz? Fun? Is he kidding?
Hey, you decide. Forget him! It’s not worth
risking your neck for some guy who wants to
learn ballroom dancing!
You turn around and run out of there as fast as
you can. Because ballroom dancing is just about
the scariest thing that can happen to a person.
And you’ve had a scary enough birthday already!
THE END

112
You can’t believe your eyes. The object is round
and black. There’s a small computer on it. It looks
like — some kind of bomb!
MacDeath presses a button. The bomb starts
beeping.
“Dodge this!” he cries with a wicked laugh.
Then he tosses the activated bomb right at you!
Hey! Think fast!
If you dodge it, turn to PAGE 66.
If you catch it, turn to PAGE 81.

113
“Oh, man,” Alex whimpers as you approach the
cemetery gates.
You look up and read the sign: MORSTON CEME-
TERY. Just the name is enough to make you shiver.
Every kid in your town knows that Morston
Cemetery is haunted. Even the caretaker won’t
set foot in the graveyard after sundown.
But Alex follows you there, dragging his feet as
he walks. The cemetery itself is ringed with tall,
thick pines. The trees have grown together so
tightly that no one can see inside.
Only the entrance allows a slight view of the
tombstones, lined up in tight rows. They cast long
shadows in the moonlight.
“You first,” Alex says, his voice squeaky.
You swallow hard and grip the shovel in your
hand tightly.
Then you step through the arching briars into
the cemetery.
Enter Morston Cemetery on PAGE 65.

114
MacDeath laughs so hard that his head shakes.
With each movement, more blood drips from his
long, pointy teeth.
“Well, well, well,” he says. “Looks like I’m stay-
ing here... for the rest of your lives! Guess I’d
better lock the back door — permanently! Your
parents will never get in again! Your lives will be
pure horror .. . for eternity!”
He pulls the hammer and another long spike
from his bag.
“Wait!” you ery. “Give us another chance!
Please!”
MacDeath whirls around and glares, thinking
about it.
“All right,” he finally says. “I’m in a jolly mood
today. So I'll give you one last chance. But this
time it’s double or nothing. You pick one item from
the tabl— jeus t one. One thing from the scav-
enger hunt list that you think will meet my high
standards. If the item is not exactly what I asked
for, I'll make sure your world will be filled with
twice as much horror as I originally planned. Now
choose!”
* You gulp. You feel your heart race.
There are only four things left on the table.
Well? What will it be?
If you choose the mouse, turn to PAGE 121.
If you choose the noose, turn to PAGE 87.
If you choose the poison, turn to PAGE 18.
If you choose the bones, turn to PAGE 67.

115
“What 2s it?” Alex asks again, squinting. “Is it a
dog?”
“It doesn’t matter!” MacDeath answers loudly.
“Just try to pin the tail on it!”
Outside, the dark sky flashes with lightning.
You jump when you hear a crack of thunder.
Did MacDeath somehow make that happen?
you wonder.
Quickly, Dr. MacDeath grabs Alex, blindfolds
him, and spins him around. He shoves a brown
cardboard tail into Alex’s hand.
“Go!” MacDeath orders.
Alex staggers forward with the tail.
Come on, Alex, you cheer silently. Beat Mac-
Death so he’ll leave us alone!
Alex jabs the tail forward.
See how Alex did on PAGE 134.

116
“Wait!” you plead. You turn to Sarah desper-
ately. “Did you get the other stuff?”
She nods and hands two things to you. A noose
that was used to hang someone in a high school
play. A soft, velvety pink thing... with cotton
stuffing...
“What’s this?” you ask.
“Mouse’s tongue,” she says. “I cut it out of my
stuffed animal.”
“And did you get the turnip?” you ask.
Sarah hands you a hard, dry white vegetable.
“See?” you insist to Dr. MacDeath. “We got
everything you wanted! We have the bones too.
And the poison. And the murderer’s knife. We
win!”
“Not so fast!” Dr. MacDeath shouts. “Where’s
the blood from the turnip?”
You swallow hard.
Uh-oh. You didn’t win — yet.
But is there a way to get blood from a turnip?
Figure it out on PAGE 110.

117
“Think, Alex,” you coax him. “We’ve got to find
it. We’ve got to get blood from a turnip. Some-
how.”
You follow Alex into his kitchen. He opens the
fridge and reaches into the vegetable bin.
He pulls out a large burlap bag. Printed on the
front is the word TURNIPS.
“Well, let’s give it a shot,” he suggests. He
reaches into the bag and pulls out a large white-
and-purple bulb-shaped thing.
“That’s a turnip?” you ask. You’ve never seen
one up close before.
“Guess so,” Alex answers. He crosses to the
counter and takes a butter knife from the utensil
drawer.
“Here goes nothing!” He slams the knife into
the vegetable.
Please, you think. Please let this work!
Find out if it did on PAGE 135.

118
“Run!” you yell to your friends.
Instantly, everyone darts in a different direc-
tion. You’re all good at this. You’ve played paint-
ball before, so you know how to take cover
quickly.
When MacDeath runs off to chase you, you all
give him the slip — and meet on the other side of
the house, in a huge clump of bushes.
“Are you okay?” you ask Josh.
“My back burns,” he answers softly. “But I
think I’m all right. Thanks — you saved me.”
“Don’t worry about it,” you mutter. Then you
turn to Alex. “We’ve got to come up with a plan,”
you tell him.
“Right,” Alex says. “And while we’re thinking,
pass out the paintballs. We’ve got to load up.”
You nod and open the backpack MacDeath gave
you. Inside are dozens of paintballs. Red ones.
Blue. Yellow. Pink.
“IT have an idea,” Sarah says. “Let’s all fire on
him at once. We’ll drown him in paint!”
Hmmm. Think that will work?
You hear footsteps outside your hiding place.
Dr. MacDeath is closing in! Better decide what
you want to do — fast.
Think about it on PAGE 47.

119
“Ewww!” Josh screams.
The cake is crawling with all kinds of disgusting
creatures. A huge cockroach flings itself off the
table, toward your feet. You jump away to avoid it.
Dr. MacDeath throws back his head and laughs.
“Now, my little friends,” he says, “what shall we
do next? Play party games? Or open presents?
Choose!”
If you play party games, turn to PAGE 85.
If you open presents, turn to PAGE 22.

120
A shiver runs up your spine. You and Alex ex-
change terrified glances.
You know you’ve got to hurry. You’ve only got
an hour to find all the things in the list — to win
the game and save Virginia.
You glance at the sky. By now, the sun has gone
down. It’s dark outside. A cat screeches some-
where nearby.
Quickly you divide up into two teams — you
and Alex on one team and Josh, Mickey, and Sarah
on the other. “Each team will find three things
from the list,” you tell everyone. “Then we'll meet
back here in forty-five minutes.”
“Hey, which three things should we look for?”
Alex asks you.
Good question.
You stare at the list, trembling. The first three
items are a mouse’s tongue, blood from a turnip,
and a noose.
The second three are bones from a graveyard, a
murderer’s knife, and pretty poison — whatever
that means!
Both groups are totally gross. Which should
you choose?
If you want to hunt for the first group, turn to
PAGE 126.
If you search for the second group, turn to
PAGE 58.

121
You decide to go with the mouse.
“This one,” you say, pointing at the dead mouse
in the trap. .
“I asked for a mouse’s tongue!” Dr. MacDeath
bellows at you. “Not a whole mouse! That’s like
ordering a hamburger in a restaurant and getting
a whole cow!”
You swallow hard and shiver in fear. Why is he
talking about ordering food? Was he going to eat
the mouse’s tongue?
MacDeath pounds the table. “So you lose! And I
stay here forever! Filling your lives with un-
speakable terror!” he shouts.
He reaches out for you with his long, sharp,
metal spike nails.
“Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!” he screeches.
You freeze. Terrified. What’s he going to do to
you?
Turn to PAGE 128.

122
“Whoa! Look out!” Alex screams as the body
begins to sit up ints grave.
Your heart pounds so hard, you’re afraid you
might faint — and fall into the grave on top of the
body!
You leap backwards.
“No!” you cry as you watch the headless body
place its two creepy gray hands on the ground.
And lift itself out of the flower bed.
The neck — where the head was attached — is
dripping blood.
“Stop!” you cry, backing away from the horrible
creature.
But of course it can’t hear you. It doesn’t have
any ears!
A moment later, the headless body runs down
the street and disappears into the night.
“You let my body escape?” a voice from inside
the house calls angrily. “Well, then — I’ll just have
to use yours!”
Whoops! Looks like your last chance to survive
this story just got away! Oh, well. Better luck
next time.
For now, you'll have to close the book and admit
defeat. And don’t you dare complain about this
ending either! Because you ain’t got no body to
complain to!
THE END

125
No! you want to cry as Dr. MacDeath slowly
moves toward you.
But you can’t speak. Your voice is frozen with
fear.
Virginia speaks up. “No fair,” she shouts. Her
meek voice suddenly sounds strong. “You can’t do
that! We won the game! That’s a mouse’s tongue
right there! Hanging out of the mouse’s mouth!”
“So what?” Dr. MacDeath shouts. “I told you —
I don’t want a whole mouse!”
“Fine,” Virginia says, standing firm. “But if the
mouse wasn’t the right answer, what was? Which
one of those things would you accept and let us
win the game?”
Hmmm, you think. Good question!
Find the answer on PAGE 84.

124
Get Dr. MacDeath’s weapon away from him?
And then give him a dose of his own, horrible
medicine? That sounds like the best plan you’ve
heard in a long time!
You and Alex creep out of the bushes and call to
him.
“MacDeath!” you shout. “There’s something
horrible in the bushes!”
“What is it?” he answers, sounding bored.
“A dead body!” you reply.
It works.
MacDeath quickly puts down his weapon so
that he can crawl into the bushes to see. While
he’s in there, you secretly trade weapons with
him. You leave him your own paintball gun filled
with green paint.
“You kids were lying!” he bellows, bearing his
bloody fangs. “There’s no body in there! You’re
trying to trick me!”
“Yeah? Well consider yourself tricked, Mac-
Death!” you shout.
You pull the trigger on his weapon — and shoot
the burning acid at his face!
Turn to PAGE 34.

125
“Yuuughh!” Alex cries, gagging and leaping
away from the box when he sees what’s inside.
You gag too.
Because inside is a human head!
Head over to PAGE 5.

126
You decide on the first group. You tear the list
in half. '
“We'll take the mouse tongue, blood from a
turnip, and the noose,” you tell Mickey, Josh, and
Sarah. “You guys take the rest.”
Josh nods as you hand him the bottom half of
the list.
“Okay,” he tells Mickey and Sarah. “Looks like
we're headed for the graveyard. Let’s go for it!”
“Good luck,” you call as they trot down your
driveway. “And hurry!”
From inside the house, you hear another
scream.
“Oh, man!” Alex moans. “We should call the po-
lice!”
“No!” you say quickly. “I think MacDeath really
has some sort of supernatural powers. If he does,
he’ll zap us if we try to go to the police. We have to
take care of this ourselves. We’ve just got to win
this scavenger hunt. And hope he keeps his word.”
Alex frowns. “Oh, great,” he mumbles.
“It’s the only chance we’ve got,” you reply.
“Now let’s find a mouse and —” ;
“Whoa! You’re really going to cut out a mouse’s
tongue? That’s so sick!” Alex cries.
Turn to PAGE 30.

127
All your friends lean forward to see what’s in-
side.
“Oh, man — it’s just another box!” Mickey com-
plains.
You peer at the contents of the carton and e
groan. He’s right. There’s another birthday pack-
age inside — wrapped up in red-and-orange paper
with yellow crinkly ribbon all over it.
“T hate that,” Sarah moans. “A package inside a
package. It’s so stupid!”
“Open it!” Dr. MacDeath screams at you
fiercely.
Quickly you tear off the wrapping paper. Inside
is another cardboard box. Taped shut. You strug-
gle with the tape and finally get the lid open.
Oh, no! Another, smaller birthday present in-
side!
MacDeath cackles. He points to the third box.
“Yes! I love this! Open that one now! Open it!”
You open box after box, only to find another,
smaller box inside.
Talk about torture! All this box opening and no
present — ever!
THE END

128
Nervously, you take a step toward the hall. You
reluctantly stick the toe of your shoe into the
green goop.
Your heart pounds wildly... waiting. Waiting
in terror for the monster blood to affect you in
some horrible way. Just like it did in the GOOSE-
BUMPS book.
Nothing happens.
“Yeeow!” All at once you feel a forceful, mag-
netic pull.
Pulling you down to the floor.
Oh, no! It’s sucking you in! Sucking you in and
swallowing you up!
You begin to slide into the green jelly-like mass.
“Aaaahhhhhhh!” you scream.
You squeeze your eyes shut tight and let out an-
other piercing, bloodcurdling scream. “Aaaaaaah-
hhhhhhhhhh!”
Keep screaming on PAGE 92.

129
From the slice Alex made, dark red juice seeps
out of the vegetable, staining the counter.
“Well,” you say. “It almost looks like it’s bleed-
ing.”
“Yeah,” Alex agrees. “This must be what
MacDeath had in mind.” He drops the turnip into
the paper bag with the dead mouse. “One item
left, but where do we get a noose?” he asks.
“We make one,” you reply. “Just get some rope
and make a noose out of it.”
“No good,” Alex reminds you. “It’s supposed to
be a noose that was used to hang someone. Re-
member?”
“So where are we going to find that?” you ask.
A strange glint creeps into Alex’s eyes.
“I’ve got it,” he replies in a low, sneaky voice.
“Let’s hang Stephanie with the noose!”
“What?” you shriek. You can’t believe what
your best friend is saying.
Turn to PAGE pias

150
“Nooo!” you scream. You throw open the back
door and run outside. You’re not going to let
MacDeath shoot you! Everyone else follows you,
screaming.
Dr. MacDeath simply laughs. A deep, evil laugh.
You glance behind and see MacDeath take aim.
“Let the game begin!” he cries. His deep throaty
voice echoes in the night.
MacDeath pulls the trigger.
“Owwww!” Josh screams, grabbing his back in
pain.
Help Josh on PAGE 28.

151
Is Alex nuts? you wonder. Why risk digging up
human graves if you don’t have to? The dog bone
seems like a better idea.
You grab your shovel and follow the golden re-
triever through the night. He wags his tail, lead-
ing you past crumbling tombstones. Finally you
arrive at the spot where he was digging.
“See? I was right!” you whisper to Alex.
Quickly you plunge your shovel into the ground. A
few minutes later, you lift out a thick, half-chewed
steak bone.
“Go. Go-0-0-0-0-0!” a ghostly voice moans in the
distance.
“Good idea!” you whisper, swallowing hard.
You and Alex grab the bone and hurry across
the grass. You run back to your house. There you
find Sarah, Josh, and Mickey waiting for you in
the driveway.
You glance at your watch. The hour is almost
up.
“Did you get everything on the list?” you ask
Sarah, panting to catch your breath.
Sarah shakes her head, looking scared. “No-
body can get blood from a turnip,” she says miser-
ably. “Nobody!”
Suddenly Dr. MacDeath bursts out the back
door. A bolt of lightning flashes overhead. “I heard
that!” he cries. “You failed to get blood from a
turnip! I win!”
Turn to PAGE 116.

152
“Bite into it,” you snap at Dr. MacDeath. You
thrust the turnip at him. “Go on — you want to
get blood from a turnip? Bite it!”
You try to sound really sure of yourself. Bluff-
ing.
MacDeath grabs the vegetable out of your hand
and tries to chomp down on it.
“Ow!” he exclaims angrily. He heaves the
turnip into the night. “What are you trying to do?
Make me break my teeth?” he shouts. “You lose!”
He gives you an evil stare. “Now follow me back
inside. It’s time to play another game!”
Gulp! Go back into the house and choose an-
other game at the bottom of PAGE 85.

133
“I’m not digging up a dead body,” you reply.
“But I will help you.”
Carefully you lift the bakery box with the head
in it and set it on the table. Then you quickly stick
some candles in your birthday cake nearby. You
light them.
“It’s my birthday,’ you announce to your
friends. “I want to blow out my candles and make
a wish.”
Alex shakes his head and looks at you like
you've lost your mind. No one else moves.
Yea—h yo u know what he must be thinking.
You’ve got a madman running your birthday
party — and you're talking to a severed head in a
bakery box! But you want to blow out your can-
dles?
Still, something tells you this must be the only
way out.
“Come on, Alex,” you plead. “Sing!”
With trembling voices, your friends all sing
“Happy Birthday.” Then you blow out your can-
dles. Hard.
I wish...
I wish the severed head would be put back to-
gether with his body... .
Find out of you got your wish on PAGE 89.

154
Alex sticks the tail to the side of the animal —
right smack in the middle. Nowhere near the end.
You groan.
Your other friends take their turns too. Blind-
folded, Sarah sticks a tail on the animal’s leg.
Josh’s tail ends up on the creature’s face. Mickey
and Virginia both blindly jab their tails onto the
dog-animal’s neck. No one has been able to win
and get rid of MacDeath.
“My turn,” you announce boldly. Time to put
your plan into action. You glare into the bloodshot
eyes of Dr. MacDeath. “Come on — blindfold me.”
“With pleasure.” MacDeath gives an evil laugh.
He places the scarf over your eyes and begins
to tie it shut.
“Ow!” you cry. The silk cloth digs into your face.
He’s tied it so tight, it presses on your eyeballs!
Turn to PAGE 88.

155
Alex removes the knife. You groan. The only
thing dripping from the gash in the turnip is a tiny
bit of clear liquid. It looks nothing like blood.
“Maybe we should try another one,” Alex of-
fers.
You peer into the bag — and see something in-
teresting. You pick it up. It’s about the size of a
puny apple, but it’s dark purple.
“What is that?” Alex asks.
“Must be some different kind of turnip,” you
guess. You hand it to Alex. “Try this one.”
Alex holds his knife over the vegetable’s dark
skin. He slices into it.
You gulp. Will it work this time?
Turn to PAGE 129.

About R.L. Stine
R.L. Stine is the most popular author in America.
He is the creator of the Goosebumps, Give Your-
self Goosebumps, Fear Street, and Ghosts of Fear
Street series, among other popular books. He has
written over 250 scary novels for kids. Bob lives in
New York City with his wife, Jane, teenage son,
Matt, and dog, Nadine.

__. GIVE YOURSELF De 4
oooWITH 20 DIFFERENT
SCARY ENDINGS
IN EACH BOOK!
1
R.L. STINE
§B(D55323-2 Escape from the Carnival of Horrors & BCD39997-7 #26 Alone in Snakebite Canyon
1 B(D56645-8 Tick Tock, You’re Dead! C2) BCD39998-5 #27 Checkout Time at the Dead-end Hotel
1 B(D56646-6 Trapped in Bat Wing Hall ©) BCD40034-7 #28 Night of a Thousand Claws
3 BCD67318-1 The Deadly Experiments of Dr. Eeek BCD40289-7 #29 Invaders from the Big Screen
1 BCD67319-X Night in Werewolf Woods © BCD41974-9 #30 You‘re Plant Food!
3 BCD67320-3 Beware of the Purple Peanut Butter CO BCD46306-3 #31 The Werewolf of Twisted Tree Lodge
+ B(D67321-1 Under the Magician's Spell Cy BCD76785-2 #32 It’s Only a Nightmare!
+ BCD84765-1 The Curse of the Creeping Coffin Cy BCD51665-5 #33 It Came from the Internet
3 B(D84766-X The Knight in Screaming Armor Cy BCD51670-1 #34 Elevator to Nowhere
+ BCD84767-8 Diary of a Mad Mummy & BCD51673-6 #35 Hocus-Pocus Horror
i BCD847 68-6 Deep in the Jungle of Doom © BCD51723-6 #36 Ship of Ghouls
3 B(D84772-4 Welcome to the Wicked Wax Museum Cy BCD51 682-5 #37 Escape from Horror House
4 BCD84773-2 Scream of the Evil Genie Cy BCD51706-6 #38 Into the Twister of Terror
3 BCD84774-0 The Creepy Creations of Professor Shock 2) BCD39777-X Special #1: Into the Jaws of Doom
1 B(D93477-5 Please Don’t Feed the Vampire! Cy BCD39999-3 Special #2: Return to Terror Tower
+ BCD84775-9 Secret Agent Grandma Cy BCD41920-X Special #3: Trapped in the Circus of Fear
j BCD93483-X Little Comic Shop of Horrors Cd BCD43378-4 Special #4: One Night in Payne House
2 BCD93485-6 Attack of the Beastly Babysitter © BCD18734-1 Special #5: The Curse of the Cave Creatures
s BCD93489-9 Escape from Camp Run-for-Your-Life 2 BCD51674-4 Special #6: Revenge of the Body Squeezers
b BCD93492-9 Toy Terror: Batteries Included
1 BCD93500-3 The Twisted Tale of Tiki island
) BCD21062-9 Return to the Carnival of Horrors
1 BCD39774-5 Zapped in Space
} B(D39775-3 Lost in Stinkeye Swamp
1 BCD39776-1 Shop Till You Drop...Dead!
Scare me, thrill me, mail me GOOSEBUMPS now!
Available wherever you buy books, or use this order form.
Scholastic Inc., P.O. Box 7502, Jefferson City, MO 65102
Please send me the books | have checked above. |a m enclosing $ (please add $2.00 to cover shipping and handling).
Send check or money order—no cash or (.0.D.s please.
Name Age
Address
City State/Zip
GYG6399
Please allow four to six weeks for delivery. Offer good in the U.S. only. Sorry, mail orders are not available to residents of Canada.
Prices subject to change.
aS PARACHUT
aSCHOLASTIC © 1999 Parachute Press, Inc. GOOSEBUMPS is a registered trademark
of Parachute Press, Inc. All rights reserved.

LOG ON FOR SCARES
_<. The latest books!
. Really grossr ecipes!
- Start your own |
Seorebemys reading cl
How to get
Goosebumps stuff:
clothes, CD-ROMS,
_ video releases and mo:
* Author RL. Stine's
tips on writing!
tg Pree oki GOOSEBUMPS Isasr.e piteed totenan _ GWEBT 198F ah Saeper
SE At Dararbut hP ACS We AN AGH Roc oacee:

ples YOUR PARTY, YOU eI
SCREAM IF YOU WANT TO!
a(olely parents have Ke) work on your birthday,
~ but don't worry — they've hired some guy to
4) create a special “horror birthday party” for
¥’ > you. Uhh...can you say “lame”? They must
have forgotten you're turning twelve, not two!
But then Dr. MacDeath IMB IVetoees Ae MANUI SIRS)
your friend into a live balloon animal! Now -
Nye)0) have Nive) choices: open: your presents
or play party games. If you open-presents,
you could be the proud owner of a vicious
wolf! Ify ou decide to play paintball, you end
Woke lefeleltemerliae capsul—e fisll ed with acid!
~The choice iig y ours in this scary GOOSEBUMPS adventure that's packed
» with over 20 super-- spooky endings!
Reader beware — you choose the scare! GIVE YOURSELF ‘
Dont mmi ss the next book in this series: SPECIAL EDITION #7:
\ iS TRICK OR... TRAPPED!
feat:
ae
z=—_ —
co | —
—
‘
ISBN O-590-99350-4
$3.99 US
$4.99 CAN