









Contents




Cover


Also by Robin Cook


Title Page


Copyright


Contents


Dedication


Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4


Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7


Chapter 8


Chapter 9


Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12


Chapter 13


Chapter 14


Chapter 15


Chapter 16


Chapter 17


Chapter 18


Chapter 19


Chapter 20


Chapter 21


Chapter 22


Chapter 23


Chapter 24


Chapter 25


Chapter 26


Chapter 27


Chapter 28


Chapter 29


Epilogue


About the Author








Landmarks




Cover


Cover


Title Page


Contents


Start


Copyright








Print Page List




iii


vi


vii


viii


1


2


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


11


12


13


14


15


16


17


18


19


20


21


22


23


24


25


26


27


28


29


30


31


32


33


34


35


36


37


38


39


40


41


42


43


44


45


46


47


48


49


50


51


52


53


54


55


56


57


58


59


60


61


62


63


64


65


66


67


68


69


70


71


72


73


74


75


76


77


78


79


80


81


82


83


84


85


86


87


88


89


90


91


92


93


94


95


96


97


98


99


100


101


102


103


104


105


106


107


108


109


110


111


112


113


114


115


116


117


118


119


120


121


122


123


124


125


126


127


128


129


130


131


132


133


134


135


136


137


138


139


140


141


142


143


144


145


146


147


148


149


150


151


152


153


154


155


156


157


158


159


160


161


162


163


164


165


166


167


168


169


170


171


172


173


174


175


176


177


178


179


180


181


182


183


184


185


186


187


188


189


190


191


192


193


194


195


196


197


198


199


200


201


202


203


204


205


206


207


208


209


210


211


212


213


214


215


216


217


218


219


220


221


222


223


224


225


226


227


228


229


230


231


232


233


234


235


236


237


238


239


240


241


242


243


244


245


246


247


248


249


250


251


252


253


254


255


256


257


258


259


260


261


262


263


264


265


266


267


268


269


270


271


272


273


274


275


276


277


278


279


280


281


282


283


284


285


286


287


288


289


290


291


292


293


294


295


296


297


298


299


300


301


302


303


304


305


306


307


308


309


310


311


312


313


314


315


316


317


318


319


320


321


322


323


324


325


326


327


328


329


330


331


332


333


334


335


336


337


338


339


340


341






OceanofPDF.com



















OceanofPDF.com















Also by Robin Cook


Bellevue


Manner of Death


Night Shift


Viral


Genesis


Pandemic


Charlatans


Host


Cell


Nano


Death Benefit


Cure


Intervention


Foreign Body


Critical


Crisis


Marker


Seizure


Shock


Abduction


Vector


Toxin


Invasion


Chromosome 6


Contagion


Acceptable Risk


Fatal Cure


Terminal


Blindsight


Vital Signs


Harmful Intent


Mutation


Mortal Fear


Outbreak


Mindbend


Godplayer


Fever


Brain


Sphinx


Coma


The Year of the Intern




OceanofPDF.com



















OceanofPDF.com

















G. P. Putnam’s Sons


Publishers Since 1838


An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC


1745 Broadway, New York, NY 10019


penguinrandomhouse.com




Copyright © 2025 by Robin Cook


Penguin Random House values and supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin Random House to continue to publish books for every reader. Please note that no part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner for the purpose of training artificial intelligence technologies or systems.


Cover design: Eric Fuentecilla


Title page photograph by Ron Frasier Photography/Shutterstock


Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data


Names: Cook, Robin, author.


Title: Spasm : a novel / Robin Cook.


Description: New York : G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 2025. | Series: A Jack Stapleton & Laurie Montgomery novel ; book 15


Identifiers: LCCN 2025020001 (print) | LCCN 2025020002 (ebook) | ISBN 9798217044931 (hardcover) | ebook ISBN 9798217044948


Subjects: LCGFT: Fiction | Medical fiction | Detective and mystery fiction | Novels


Classification: LCC PS3553.O5545 S63 2025 (print) | LCC PS3553.O5545 (ebook) | DDC 813/.54—dc23/eng/20250626


LC record available at 
https://lccn.loc.gov/​22025020001


LC ebook record available at 
https://lccn.loc.gov/​22025020002


The authorized representative in the EU for product safety and compliance is Penguin Random House Ireland, Morrison Chambers, 32 Nassau Street, Dublin D02 YH68, Ireland, 
https://eu-contact.penguin.ie
.


ep_prh_7.3a_154227411_c0_r1




OceanofPDF.com

















Contents




Dedication






Chapter 1






Chapter 2






Chapter 3






Chapter 4






Chapter 5






Chapter 6






Chapter 7






Chapter 8






Chapter 9






Chapter 10






Chapter 11






Chapter 12






Chapter 13






Chapter 14






Chapter 15






Chapter 16






Chapter 17






Chapter 18






Chapter 19






Chapter 20






Chapter 21






Chapter 22






Chapter 23






Chapter 24






Chapter 25






Chapter 26






Chapter 27






Chapter 28






Chapter 29






Epilogue






About the Author








_154227411_


OceanofPDF.com















This book is dedicated to Fred Pauzar, the personification of 
friendship




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 1


Monday, July 21, 8:15 
a.m.


491 Edgewood Road


Essex Falls, Hamilton County, New York


Ethan Jameson’s phone alarm had to sound for almost a full minute before the jangle was able to penetrate his sleeping brain. Until nearly 4:00 
a.m
. Monday morning he’d been totally involved in a major nighttime operation with his local and beloved militia group, the Diehard Patriots. Under the watchful eye of two of their four Russian advisors, the entire contingent of seventeen Essex Falls’ members, dressed in full combat fatigues and with fully loaded AR-15 rifles and sidearms, had staged a full-scale mock assault on an empty home and barn. The supposed rationale was to rescue a captive local family being detained by an overzealous left-wing government. The entire complicated maneuver had been executed like clockwork. All seventeen Diehard Patriots had managed to go through multiple AR-15 magazines without so much as a single misfire, a testament to their progress handling weapons over the recent weeks.


Once conscious of the shrill, disagreeable clamor of the alarm, Ethan sat bolt upright, grabbed the offending phone off the night table, silenced it, and then, in a fit of transient rage, had to restrain himself from throwing the blasted thing against the far wall.


Still holding his phone, Ethan glanced across the bed, expecting to see the sleeping form of his girlfriend, Janet Huber, as it was her house and he was a relatively recent invitee. But the light cotton covers were turned back, and she was nowhere to be seen. Cocking his head to the side he was just able to hear the shower going, which reminded him that she’d planned on heading into her parents’ convenience store early that morning. During the school year, Janet was a third-grade teacher, but during the summer months, she helped in the family store as she had from an early age.


Both Ethan and Janet had grown up in Essex Falls, Ethan a year ahead. Back then they’d had little to do with each other, mainly due to Ethan’s reputation as an antisocial, carelessly groomed, unathletic “bad boy”—whereas Janet was the opposite: outgoing, traditionally attractive, blond, and popular. On top of that, Janet had been a good student, particularly compared to Ethan, who was more into hunting and fishing, online gaming, and dark web trolling than anything to do with academics or social interaction.


Nevertheless, when Janet returned to Essex Falls after obtaining a teaching degree at nearby Hamilton College, they reconnected. Ethan had never left Essex Falls, finding employment after high school with the American Pest Control Company as a technician servicing the local apple and dairy farms. To both Janet’s and Ethan’s surprise, they had clicked when they’d unexpectedly run into each other, and Janet—after a few weeks—had invited him to move into the cottage she’d rented just outside of town.


The stimulus for the abrupt change of heart as adults was the 
recognition that both of them, along with most of their friends, had shared an emotional trauma from the major economic and social upheaval that had befallen their isolated town when they were in the fourth and fifth grades, respectively. At that time the Bennet Shoe Company had closed with little warning. Although it had been common knowledge the business had long been struggling to compete with the avalanche of cheap, foreign-made footwear flooding the country, the town and the Bennets themselves had firmly believed their quality would prevail.


For nearly a century, the Bennet Shoe Company had been a rock-solid fixture in Essex Falls, with the Bennet family considered something akin to royalty. In many ways the company and the town were synonymous, as it employed—at any given time and over multiple generations—nearly three-quarters of the community’s working-age population. Bennet Shoe had been founded by Ambrose Bennet in what was previously a one-horse town sited in the gorgeous wilds of New York State’s Adirondack Mountains a year after the California gold rush, presumably with the help of some California gold. Its founding had required damming the Roaring Fork River to create a reservoir, both for waterpower to run the factory’s sewing machines and as the domestic water source for what was to become a rapidly expanding population.


The creation of the company also necessitated the construction of what would become the largest multistoried, red-brick mill north of Albany, complete with an impressive clock tower modeled after the bell tower in Saint Mark’s Square, Venice. As expected, the new industry spurred the town’s explosive growth, including the formation of an impressive Main Street lined with two-story brick buildings with storefronts below and employee apartments above, as well as a large tract of single-family employee housing. Within ten years, 
Essex Falls had a population nearing five thousand, which matched the combined total of the entire rest of Hamilton County, the most sparsely populated but arguably most beautiful county in all of New York State, replete with densely forested mountains, crystal clear, unspoiled lakes, and wildly cascading rivers.


The social consequences of the precipitous loss of Essex Falls’ largest employer were monumental, particularly because of the town’s remoteness. A few families were lucky enough for their breadwinner to find a job twenty-six miles west at the Rubington Paper Mill in Eastham or twenty-eight miles north at the Schörgers Lumber Mill near Ducksbury. The rest of the laid-off workers went without or moved away, which is what most were forced to do. Those who stayed and couldn’t find work suffered—mainly from alcohol abuse and one of its shameful effects: domestic violence.


This common legacy fueled Ethan and Janet’s reconnection, as both their families had suffered hardships, albeit significantly different, with Ethan’s faring much worse. Although initially happy because of their shared history, Janet was lately coming to fear two aphorisms: “Like father, like son” and “Leopards don’t change their spots.” Two weeks previously she’d been shocked and dismayed when Ethan had lost control and struck her during what was a rather insignificant disagreement, evoking disturbing memories of her father’s behavior. Although Ethan had effusively apologized, the episode undermined Janet’s confidence that their relationship would work. It did the same for Ethan’s, making him aware he was living on borrowed time psychologically with such a strong woman unless he did something rather dramatic to reestablish his sense of masculinity. In truth the episode had surprised him almost as much as it had Janet, and although he promised her and himself he was going to control his fiery temperament, he wasn’t entirely confident 
it would be possible. As a teenager he’d been in his share of fights, and even though he was 100 percent smarter now, he didn’t know for certain how he’d react when pressed. Besides, deep down Ethan felt the entire country of America was on the wrong track in just about every way.


Shrugging his shoulders at the unknown, Ethan tossed his phone onto the night table, threw back the covers, swung his legs and feet over the side of the bed, and stood up. After peeling off his pajama top, he raised his arms skyward over his head and stretched to relieve the tightness of his shoulder muscles. Over the last year he’d gotten into bodybuilding as part of his dedication to the Diehard Patriots, whose interests had come to completely dominate his life. As a result he’d become noticeably more buff with bulging pecs and biceps and remarkably less belly fat—all of which he was able to appreciate at the moment in the mirror over Janet’s bureau.


But his contentment was short-lived. As his sleepy mind cleared, he recalled with instant clarity and irritation exactly how angry he’d been when he’d gotten home in the wee hours from the militia maneuvers. Although there was no doubt the operation itself had gone well, the fact that once again only two out of the four Russian paramilitary specialists had shown up to observe and provide feedback on the Diehard Patriots’ performance was infuriating because that was why they were there and why the Diehard Patriots were monetarily supporting their visit by paying their rent and supplying them with the use of a truck.


Ethan had been the major founder of the Diehard Patriots. The idea of forming a homegrown paramilitary group had occurred to him after watching with a combination of shock and awe the storming of the US Capitol in 2021. What he’d immediately recognized from that disturbing episode was just how vulnerable the citizens 
of Essex Falls were in their self-imposed isolation, tucked away in the Adirondack Mountains, especially considering how the US government had essentially allowed and even helped the Chinese destroy the Bennet Shoe Company.


Within days of the Capitol storming, Ethan had begun a massive online search of everything there was to know about militias. Because he had spent countless hours online as a teenager, he didn’t have any problem learning what he needed to know and then some, especially on the dark web. Armed with what he’d been able to put together, he and two of his closest friends then founded the Diehard Patriots and began the process of soliciting members and outfitting them, meaning obtaining AR-15s, Glocks, and lots of ammunition, along with various military gear, including night vision goggles and camouflage apparel. In six months he’d recruited a dozen eager and equally disillusioned members, and within a year he’d reached the current total of seventeen. For Ethan, the payoff had been immense. The Diehard Patriots offered him a sense of identity that he and his fellow militiamen would be able to protect their community from potential future threats from a system that he believed had betrayed the town in the past and might do so again.


Struggling with another sudden, intense wave of anger at the Russians for not showing up the night before, particularly the commander and his lieutenant, Ethan stared out the window with unseeing eyes while his mind churned and his irritation deepened. There was something about the Russians, particularly the commander, that didn’t make sense, and it involved the marked difference between his original expressed interest in coming to Essex Falls compared to his behavior once they had arrived.


As the avowed commander of the Diehard Patriots, Ethan was responsible for the Russians’ presence as he had been the one to 
invite them. He had met them online, where he spent countless hours on social media platforms associated with far-right paramilitary organizations, like the Russian VKontakte, OK.ru, and Telegram, all in hopes of learning about combat tactics, survival skills, and other military activities. He’d been impressed from the get-go with how closely the various Russian far-right groups shared his ideologies, especially about how the world had changed for the worse, as well as how far ahead they were in their paramilitary organization in comparison to their American counterparts.


Then out of the blue, Ethan had been contacted via Telegram by Viktor Mikhailov, a spare-time commander of a highly organized, well-established paramilitary organization in Koltsovo, Russia, which Ethan had located with Google Maps. Flattered by the attention, Ethan had ended up talking directly with the man on multiple occasions, which was made easy by the Russian’s ability to speak flawless English, although with a decidedly British accent. The man explained that he had spent several years in the UK under a work-study program a decade previously.


Impressed by Viktor’s fluent dialogue as well as his paramilitary experience and knowledge, Ethan was eager to chat over the course of several days. In the process he didn’t mind being peppered with questions about Essex Falls’ size, population, layout, and reservoir. Then Viktor took Ethan aback by offering to travel to Essex Falls along with three of his staff and remain for about a month for the sole purpose of training the Diehard Patriots, to turn the group into a true fighting force—provided Ethan could guarantee him a few non-negotiable conditions.


Although suspicious as to what the non-negotiable conditions might be, Ethan was immediately intrigued. He was already convinced from his online research that the Russian right-wing 
paramilitary groups were some of the most experienced in the world, and the opportunity for the Diehard Patriots to be trained by the commander of one was like manna from heaven. When Ethan asked what the conditions were, he was immediately relieved. Viktor told him there were only two. He explained that under current world tensions, he and his staff would not be able to travel to the United States under Russian passports but instead would be required to come as Dutch citizens with Netherlands passports. He then asked if Ethan would agree not to reveal their true origins to anyone whatsoever, including family and fellow Diehard Patriots, just to avoid potential misunderstandings and immigration problems. Before Ethan could even respond, Viktor added the second: that he and his staff would need Ethan to provide them during their visit with a large, isolated residence, preferably one with a functional outbuilding, like a barn or a big shed, as well as a vehicle capable of accommodating all four of them.


Relieved by the ease of fulfilling such conditions, Ethan had agreed immediately and the rest was history. The four Russians arrived via Montreal in mid-June, requiring Ethan to drive up to Champlain to pick them up in his Ford F-150, which turned out to be a mild problem. Although Viktor was slight enough for Ethan to describe as scrawny and of moderate height, the other three were sizable and muscular, especially the two younger ones, Alexei and Dmitry, who were both in their late twenties and considerably over six feet. The third, Nikolai, was about thirty and close to six feet exactly, which Ethan could tell because Ethan himself was six feet precisely.


With Viktor insisting on riding shotgun, the other three had to literally squeeze into Ethan’s rear bench seat for the two-and-a-half-hour ride back to Essex Falls. During the ride, they all introduced 
themselves, and Ethan became progressively more optimistic about their visit, especially after learning that they all spoke flawless English, so communication was not going to be a problem. And all the Russians expressed sincere eagerness to begin a militia training program to turn Ethan and his group into a true fighting force.


During the rest of that trip, Ethan was treated to a series of humorous stories of the group’s trials and tribulations in getting there, first traveling to Amsterdam via Istanbul, of all places, which Ethan wouldn’t be able to find on a map. To his surprise, the group had had to cross the US-Canada border on foot and then hitchhike to Champlain. Because he personally had never been out of the United States, Ethan took it all on face value, especially since, at the time, he was pleased and super thankful for the obvious effort the group had made to get there.


When they arrived at Essex Falls, Viktor insisted on a tour of the town, which Ethan was happy to provide. Most of what the commander wanted to see, Ethan understood: the grocery market, the hardware store, and the liquor shop. What Ethan found a bit strange was his interest in seeing the town’s Municipal Water Department and his asking about the fastest route to Albany. But Ethan didn’t care one way or the other. At the time he was completely overjoyed they were there and had high hopes that there would be enormous benefits for his beloved militia.


After the rapid tour, Ethan had driven the group four miles out of town to the Bennet Estate, the large and elaborate Victorian house with a sizable barn that the Diehard Patriots had rented for the visitors’ use, paying by the week. He also gave them the keys to a four-year-old Dodge Ram pickup truck that was parked by the main house for their use during their visit. He then told them he’d be back at five to take them to a celebratory dinner at Ted’s Diner, 
the oldest restaurant in Essex Falls, where they would have an opportunity to meet the other two founders of the Diehard Patriots. As far as the lectures, seminars, demonstrations, and full-scale paramilitary operations and tactics were concerned, he was hoping that their scheduling would start the following day.


“Oh, glory be, he’s awake,” Janet Huber said superciliously, interrupting Ethan’s thoughts. The edge to her voice was immediately obvious as she emerged from the bathroom dressed in a bright floral sundress. She’d caught him shirtless and wearing only pajama bottoms while staring out the window as if in a trance. Averting her eyes, she headed over to the bureau to grab her shoulder bag.


“Don’t tell me you’re still pissed?” Ethan shot back with an equivalent edge.


“Of course I’m still irritated,” Janet corrected, turning to look at him and putting her knuckles on her hips with arms akimbo. “What do you expect after you come barging into the house at four 
a.m.
, crashing around, making a racket, and waking me up out of a sound sleep. I mean it’s one thing if you boys insist on running around in the woods for half the night playing games, but it’s quite another if you don’t have the sense and decency to come into the house without disturbing me. I am, after all, the one paying the rent.”


“We were on a major militia maneuver, not playing games,” Ethan snapped, struggling to corral his growing anger at her obvious disrespect. “And I was furious for good reason. Only half of our supposed instructors showed up. And let me tell you, we made a lot of effort and went through a shitload of ammunition. The whole deal was one hell of a major undertaking.”


“From my perspective, it was just a bunch of men acting like adolescents, making fools of themselves,” Janet said with a dismissive wave. “But be that as it may, you should be glad no one got hurt. 
And why does it matter if only half of the instructors showed up if the operation went as planned?”


“Because the two instructors that didn’t show up are the commander and his lieutenant, and we are paying good money for them to be here. I’ve insisted they show up countless times, but Viktor and his sidekick Nikolai are more interested in a brewery that they set up in the Bennet barn than helping the Diehard Patriots, which is the whole reason they’re here.”


“A brewery?” Janet questioned with obvious ridicule. “Why in God’s name have they bothered to set up a brewery?”


“I’ve got no clue. And I don’t even know it’s a brewery to be entirely honest. That’s just what JD said he was told by one of them he plays basketball with occasionally. But you know what? At this point it doesn’t matter. I’ve had it! Last night was the absolute final time they are going to stand us up! When the operation was over, I took one of them aside and told him in no uncertain terms that their visit to Essex Falls was over and done and that they had to get their asses out of the Bennet Estate today at the latest ’cause the rent is due. And I made it crystal clear that I would get the police involved if they didn’t vacate immediately. And to be sure I got their attention I said that I’d let the cops know there was something fishy about their IDs. And let me tell you, I’m truly serious! I’m finished making threats and being ignored.”


“Whatever,” Janet said with a roll of her eyes. “I’m out of here. But closer to home, let me warn you, mister, that you’d better mend your ways in general or you will be packing yourself. You’re skating on thin ice here!” She then spun on her heels and marched out of the room.


For a second Ethan was stunned at Janet’s dismissal. There was no way he could allow her to get away with how she was currently treating him, because if he did, it would only get worse. In a fit of 
rage, he looked around the room searching for something to smash, something of Janet’s. Unfortunately, there was nothing immediately available, and instead, glancing at the bedside clock, he became aware of the time, knowing that if he didn’t pull himself together, he’d be late for work yet again. Since he was hardly on the best of terms with his immediate supervisor, he needed to make tracks. Quickly searching under the camouflage military gear that he’d taken off early that morning and tossed onto the only chair in the room, he found the clean T-shirt and jeans he’d put out the previous afternoon to wear that day. Since he was well aware of the toxicity of some of the products he used at work, Ethan was a stickler about showering and washing his clothes when he got home each and every day.


After hastily donning his clothes, he dashed into the bathroom to smooth out his hair with a wet palm and splash some water on his face. It wasn’t much, but it was all he had time for. Heading out the side door, he hurried over to his black F-150, which had his AR-15 on a rack mounted in the back of the cab. As he grabbed the door handle and depressed the release button to yank open the door, he hesitated. Some weird sticky substance coated the handle. Releasing his grip with mild difficulty, he stared down at his open left palm. Whatever the sticky material was, it was clear and colorless. Lifting his hand to his nose, he smelled it, but it was odorless. Gingerly using the index finger of his right hand, he repeatedly touched along the door handle to check the extent of the mysterious sticky material, which wasn’t very much in total but covered its entirety.


Who the hell had the nerve to disrespect his favorite possession, he wondered. On top of the irritation he was feeling about Janet’s attitude, he was beside himself with this new personal transgression and let out a string of curse words. Then, after a moment of 
indecision, he reckoned he couldn’t leave whatever it was on his beloved truck’s door handle for fear it might permanently mar its surface. Running back into the kitchen and grabbing the spray bottle of glass cleaner from under the sink along with a handful of paper towels, he made short work of removing the sticky stuff. After tossing the dirty paper towels in the nearby trash barrel, he returned to his vehicle and climbed up into the cab.


Backing out from Janet’s cottage onto a gravel road, he gunned the F-150. By the time he got to the paved road, he was going at a good clip and had to abruptly brake before pulling out to head north. The American Pest Control Company was six miles up the road in the direction of the town of Livermore.


Within seconds, Ethan was cruising well over the speed limit as he nervously glanced at the time. It was going to be close, but if there were no unforeseen obstacles, he would make it on time. He certainly hoped he wasn’t going to be late because in his current mood, he might not be able to withstand one of Art Sorenson’s tongue-lashings. Art was Ethan’s supervisor, and he and Ethan didn’t see eye to eye on a host of issues.


Ethan let out an extended sigh. It might have been an emotionally trying morning in many respects, but at least for a moment he could calm down and appreciate that it was one fantastically gorgeous late July day. The sky was entirely cloudless, and thanks to the morning dew, the sunlight was causing flashes of diamond-like sparkling in all the open fields. Adding to the scene, the trees comprising the dense temperate rainforests lining the road and extending up the various craggy mountains were as lush as he could ever remember.


Unfortunately and despite the gorgeous scenery, such comforting, pleasant thoughts didn’t last long. In a flash, his mind reverted 
to being major-league pissed at Viktor and Nikolai for yet again failing to show up for last night’s maneuver. And, as if that wasn’t bad enough, he was now being forced to weather Janet’s obvious feminist disrespect. There was no doubt in Ethan’s mind that both situations needed to be confronted and rectified immediately.


Ethan headed into the last curve in the road before the American Pest Control Company and took his foot off the accelerator to allow his truck to begin slowing. But the moment he did, he began to experience a strange sensation in the palm of his right hand that quickly spread out into all five of his fingers. The sensation was akin to pins and needles but different and less agreeable, almost like pain. Although he had never considered pins and needles to be pleasant, he certainly never found them disturbing. Yet this current sensation somehow seemed particularly disconcerting, making him take his hand off the steering wheel to check it out. To his surprise, in spite of the growing intensity of the sensation, he saw nothing amiss. Quickly he regrasped the steering wheel and redirected his attention back out the windshield as he closed in on his destination. His truck had now slowed considerably.


Pulling off the road, Ethan coasted into his usual parking spot. The moment he came to a full stop, he glanced back down at his hand. Once again it appeared entirely normal, yet the unpleasant sensation had continued to intensify and even begun to travel up his arm. It had now morphed into something closer to pain but still not pain, per se. There was also something new. The muscles in his forearm had begun to twitch, which progressed rapidly into multiple individual, localized cramps. In the next instant some fingers began snapping in their own kind of spasm, each finger contracting into a claw, causing sharp pain like a charley horse, but then, just as suddenly, they would relax before another electric jolt of discomfort.


As all these various symptoms rapidly progressed, particularly the spasms, Ethan felt an overpowering sense of anxiety settle over him like a smothering blanket. All at once he found himself unable to think much at all, let alone clearly. Instinctively he became aware he needed medical attention and needed it immediately, meaning he had to get himself to the office of Dr. Robert Nielson, the only doctor and medical care in town, and he had to get there fast.


Since he hadn’t turned off his truck’s engine, Ethan threw the shift into reverse and spun his tires as he pulled back out into the road without even checking for traffic. Luckily there was none. Then as quickly as he could, he turned the truck around and accelerated back the way he’d come.


Fighting through spasms, sharp, intense but fleeting pains, and overwhelming anxiety, fear, and confusion, Ethan raced past the turnoff to Janet’s house and headed directly on into the town center, where half the businesses were vacant. Only Daniels Hardware, which belonged to Ethan’s friend JD’s parents; the Huber Convenience, which belonged to Janet’s parents; and Ted’s Diner looked somewhat similar to how they’d always looked. All the other places were mere shadows of their former selves, including the huge, empty, multistory Bennet Shoe factory itself.


Screeching to a stop outside the old Bennet Shoe Company’s clinic building, which Dr. Nielson had acquired when the entire company closed, Ethan stumbled out of the cab and on shaky legs made his way inside. Staggering into Dr. Nielson’s office, Ethan confronted Melanie Hopkins, the doctor’s nurse/secretary.


“I’m sick and in awful pain,” Ethan managed to gasp while trying to steady himself, leaning on the front of Melanie’s desk. “I’m also going crazy.” Several patients in the waiting area all looked up from their phones.


Melanie saw the involuntary spasms Ethan was fighting in both arms and portions of his agonized face. The second thing she noticed was that his pupils were smaller than any pupils she’d ever seen, appearing like mere periods at the end of a printed sentence.


Leaping out of her seat, Melanie rushed around the desk and directed Ethan to move out of the waiting room and back into one of the examination rooms, which he was able to do with significant difficulty. While she quickly donned sterile gloves, she told him to climb up on the aged exam table, where he ended up writhing around in pain and terror. Melanie secured him by quickly raising the guardrails on both sides.


“What’s wrong and what happened?” she demanded nervously. “The doctor will need to know because at the moment he’s over in Clinton doing his rounds at the hospital.”


“I don’t know what’s wrong, and as far as I know, nothing happened,” Ethan squeaked. “Everything was fine. I was just driving to work, and it hit me like a ton of bricks. Truly. I’m bad, and it all came out of the blue. As I said, I’m going crazy. I can’t stand it.”


“Had you already been out on a job spraying this morning?” Melanie prodded. She knew he worked for the American Pest Control Company.


“No, I hadn’t even gotten to work yet.”


Quickly Melanie took Ethan’s pulse and then blood pressure, leaving the cuff in place. His pulse was rapid but regular and although the blood pressure was elevated, it wasn’t that far out of normal.


“You have to help me,” Ethan managed to gasp through grimaces of pain and a terrifying sense of impending doom. “Please! Everything seems to be going haywire in my body, even my mouth.”


“What’s wrong with your mouth?” Melanie asked as she used 
her cell to speed dial the doctor. As an experienced nurse, she could sense that Ethan, although conscious, was in extremis, but she had no idea why—there was no blood loss or sign of trauma. 
Could it be psychosomatic?
 She doubted it, not with all the visible spasms on his arms and face. She’d never seen such symptoms in a patient in all her six years of training at New York City’s Bellevue Hospital, where she thought she’d seen everything.


“There’s too much saliva,” Ethan complained. “I feel like I’m going to drown. It’s even difficult to talk.”


“Oh, thank God you answered,” Melanie said the moment she heard the doctor’s voice. Turning her back on Ethan, she began a rapid description of Ethan’s mysterious state and her confusion about what to do. She specifically asked if she should call the police and ask Chief Hargrove to get out the old ambulance.


“Sounds like it could be organophosphate poisoning,” Dr. Nielson said with urgency. He knew the toxicity of some of the products the American Pest Control Company used. “Put on some gloves immediately!”


“I did!”


“First give him some atropine stat! Next, get him into the shower and get him to scrub his entire body! And bag his clothes! I’m on my way!”


“The shower might be difficult. He’s having trouble walking.”


“Do the best you can! I’ll be there just as soon as possible.”




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 2


Monday, July 21, 9:20 
a.m.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


Dr. Viktor Sergeyevich Mikhailov switched on the incubator heater along with its agitator after adding the appropriate amount of ligase. At that point there was nothing remaining to do but allow the contained theta prion gene along with a galactose promoter to go through the process of inserting itself into the plasmid yeast expression vector.


Viktor and Dr. Nikolai Alexeyevich Petrov had been hard at work in the makeshift molecular biological laboratory they and their two assistants—Alexei Ivanov, a microbiological technician, and Dmitry Volkov, a biomedical instrumentation expert—had created in a nineteenth-century barn. It hadn’t been an easy task, as all the necessary equipment had to be obtained de novo from various American medical and scientific sources mostly in Albany, a two-hour drive away. All they had brought with them from Russia was a microscopic amount of theta prion gene in a sealed vial.


Luckily, they had a limitless supply of US cash, thanks to access to adequate Bitcoin ATMs not only in Albany, but also in Saratoga Springs and Glens Falls, both of which were closer than Albany. Prior to this operation, neither man had realized how important the development of the cryptocurrency was going to be to their work, but there was no way they could have accomplished what they had without it.


Viktor and Nikolai had been closeted in their makeshift lab since five o’clock that morning following their decision over celebratory vodkas late the evening before to do one more major prion harvest and release before fleeing the decadent West back to Holy Mother Russia. They had already completed five prion harvests and releases over five weeks, and accomplished “proof of concept,” namely that the theta prion Viktor had created back at the Vector Institute in Koltsovo had the potential to become a game-changing bioweapon, capable of tipping the balance in the ongoing confrontation between Russia and the West.


Although they lacked absolute scientific corroboration that the theta prion they’d introduced into the Essex Falls domestic water system was causing the onset of very rapid neurogenerative disease, they’d had more than adequate verbal confirmation that there had been a sudden upswing in the incidence of rapidly progressive episodes of dementia mimicking Alzheimer’s, which was what they’d fully expected. Despite their eagerness to leave, they couldn’t resist doing one more release as a kind of icing-on-the-cake celebration, as well as a personal expression of contempt for Essex Falls, the most boring, utterly uncultured, isolated place any of them had ever been, despite it being only two hundred miles north of cosmopolitan New York City.


“Talk about being sent to Siberia,” Nikolai suddenly said, 
breaking the silence that had prevailed for more than two hours while the two men had been busily working. He’d just straightened up from cleaning the thermocycler after having used it to ramp up the amount of the theta prion gene while Viktor had been preparing the vector to receive it. Since they had been working together for years in multiple locations in Russia, they hardly needed to speak with each other when involved in a combined task. “Our being sent here to this godforsaken place and having to deal with all these uneducated boorish imbeciles has been far worse.”


Viktor’s response was to laugh so hard he had to slap a hand to his face to keep from spraying saliva, and with his naturally deep baritone voice, the sound caused Nikolai to guffaw at his own joke.


With the incubator running in the background and the contentment of a good laugh, they both felt a sense of accomplishment. They had completed what they had set out to do, and at the moment there was nothing more to be done until Alexei and Dmitry were roused out of bed and sent on their way to Albany to get a batch of supplies for the final harvest, particularly the yeast, which would serve as the living prion protein factory. Once the cells had been transformed by the vector being readied in the incubator and isolated, they would be put into the fermenter that they were using as a bioreactor and allowed to do what microorganisms were good at doing under the right conditions: massively reproducing and following the orders dictated by their genetic code. In this case that meant making the theta prion.


Both Viktor and Nikolai were medical doctors as well as PhD biochemists, with Viktor having an additional PhD in molecular biology. Both had committed themselves to research and shunned clinical medicine from early in their careers. Although Viktor had been born and spent his early childhood in Nizhny Novgorod while 
Nikolai came from Saint Petersburg, both had ended up for final PhDs at Moscow University, where they’d met. Together they had gone on to spend time working in a number of “closed” Russian cities on classified projects, first at the 33rd Central Scientific Research and Testing Institute in Shikhany and then later at the 48th Central Scientific Research Institute in Kirov before finally moving on to the Vector Institute in Koltsovo. It was at Vector where they began to work on prions, and it was while they were working together on prions that Viktor had made the breakthrough discovery of the theta prion. He’d done it almost by accident by using CRISPR/Cas9 to cause a series of multiple but very specific point mutations in the human prion gene CD230. Testing his discovery on transgenic mice specifically bred for prion research, he’d been shocked to observe the speed at which the resulting neurodegenerative changes occurred in the animals’ brains with this new prion. Instead of the normal weeks or months, it was hours, meaning in humans it would be days or weeks instead of years and decades.


Although immediately highly classified, Viktor’s discovery received at lot of attention and commendation from the highest levels of the FSB and the GRU, where both Viktor and Nikolai were known from their time in Shikhany and Kirov. This attention and commendation couldn’t have pleased both Viktor and Nikolai more than it had. The reason was simple, as the two men shared a deep and sincere commitment to staunch right-wing ideology. Both had been leaders of Russian youth organizations as teenagers, which had translated into continued active personal support of a powerful, authoritarian, right-wing Russian paramilitary group in which Viktor was an acting general and Nikolai a major. When the men had promoted the idea of Viktor’s discovery being an enormously effective bioweapon in the ongoing conflict with the West, they had 
been rewarded by the FSB and GRU offering Viktor and Nikolai logistical support to secretly carry out an actual proof-of-concept field trial and hence their search for, and eventual arrival in, Essex Falls, New York.


“What do you say we go back to the house and wake up the two sleeping beauties?” Nikolai suggested. He stripped off his protective gloves and took off his apron. “The sooner we get the fermenter up and running, the sooner we’ll have final product, meaning the sooner we’re out of here and, thank God, on our way home.”


“You are absolutely correct,” Viktor said, peeling off his own gloves and apron. “But I’m going to pull rank and have you do it on your own. I’m not in the mood to face their complaining. And I don’t blame them. Staying out all night babysitting this bunch of country bumpkins had to have been trying.”


“And scary.”


“You got that right. The two times I made myself spend the night out with them was about all I could handle. Training them is, after all, an impossible task. It would take a lot more than a few nights drinking beer and running around in the forest with loaded automatic weapons to turn these yokels into soldiers.”


“I shudder to think of what our guys, Alexei and Dmitry, had to endure all these weeks.”


“Agreed,” Viktor said. “Yet it had to be done to humor our hosts.”


“I’m actually more worried about our techs being truly disappointed when I tell them that we decided to do another harvest and release. At dinner last night we seemed to be leaning toward getting the hell out of here this afternoon.”


“You’re undoubtedly right. They’re as bored as we are, but just be sure to emphasize to them the sooner we have this last harvest, 
the sooner we can dump it into the municipal water sedimentation tanks and be out of here.”


“I’ll make sure to emphasize that very point,” Nikolai said as he turned off the light before following Viktor out the barn’s side door.


Early that morning when they’d first headed out to the barn to start work, it had been before dawn and barely light. Now, nearly five hours later there was intense midmorning sun, which was already high enough in the sky to give a true inkling of its potential afternoon power, beating down on Viktor’s scalp through his thinning hair. Summer days were surprisingly warm in Essex Falls, reminding him of Siberia.


“It’s going to be another hot day,” he complained, running a hand over the top of his head as he preceded Nikolai up the beaten path that led from the barn’s side door to the main house. Although the Russians had been disappointed and surprised by the cultural isolation of Essex Falls, despite its location only two hundred miles north of New York City, they had been thrilled with their actual accommodations. The Bennet Estate, where they had been living, was comprised of a rather large, extraordinarily decorative, three-story, black Victorian Gothic house built in 1860 complete with all sorts of unique architectural details, a sizable traditional barn with multiple interior rooms in addition to a dozen horse stalls, and a third building mostly underground that they were told had been an icehouse. The main house was a unique combination of various wings, twelve bedrooms with en suite baths, multiple towers with actual access to their parapets, pointed arched windows and doors, steeply pitched slate roofs, and surrounded by a wide roofed porch with turned columns, where they had spent most of their free daylight hours. Adding to the estate’s allure, it was comfortably sited 
four miles from the center of town on a small lake in the middle of densely wooded acres. From the home’s veranda, the only other residence visible was a remarkably similar Victorian house across the lake that they were told had been built for the firstborn son of the person who built the house they were occupying.


“I might take a swim a bit later,” Nikolai responded to Viktor’s comment about the temperature.


“I’ll probably join you,” Viktor said.


They climbed the porch stairs and entered the house through the kitchen door, which had been the servants’ entrance years ago. The kitchen was huge with the original, woodburning stoves and ovens along with soapstone sinks and old iceboxes still in place, in addition to recently installed modern appliances and a large granite-topped island. The floor was wide planked oak, visibly worn in highly tracked areas.


“You head upstairs and wake the team,” Viktor said. “I’ll make us all another pot of coffee.”


“Fair enough,” Nikolai responded. He headed up the back, narrow servants’ stairs, filled with an urge to get the technicians up and on their way. If there was no problem and the appropriate yeast was available and didn’t need to be ordered, he was hoping that the fermenter could be charged up in the next couple of days, maybe even by Wednesday.


As he climbed he found himself wondering how exactly they were going to leave the country on their way back to Russia. He and Viktor hadn’t discussed the issue for weeks. Initially there had been thought they might risk flying out of New York, which they all would have preferred for a bit of a cultural rush, since none of them had ever visited the city, but that idea had faded when they received 
coded messages from the GRU that there could be trouble when they tried to check in for a flight to Istanbul using their FSB-generated Netherlands passports. The fear was that the US immigration computers checked outgoing passengers’ entry details, which were nonexistent. What that meant was that they would most likely have to retrace their route back through Champlain, New York, to depart out of Montreal. Unfortunately, that route held no allure whatsoever. Still, the last thing any of them wanted to do was get in trouble with the US authorities, especially after being so damn careful not to do so during the nearly six weeks they’d been in Essex Falls.


Reaching the second floor, Nikolai headed toward Alexei Ivanov’s bedroom. Alexei was the microbiological technician, so obtaining the proper yeast and getting it quickly fell mostly on his shoulders. Besides, of the two technicians, Alexei was the more volatile and unpredictable, and Nikolai wanted to get the burden of waking him over with. As a sound sleeper, Alexei could at times be a bear to awaken.


When they had first arrived they had picked the bedrooms they wanted and all chose the second floor, where the rooms were larger than those on the third. They were decidedly cooler as well. Viktor had chosen what surely had been the master bedroom while Nikolai had picked an adjoining one that was nearly as large. Alexei, next in line, had picked a bedroom facing the lake. Dmitry, the youngest, had to be content with a view out the front of the house that looked over the parking area and the nearby, heavily forested mountains.


Opening Alexei’s door, Nikolai made his way in the semidarkness over to the heavy, velvet blackout drapes, and rapidly pulled them open. Bright sunlight reflecting off the lake flooded in, 
instantly filling the room. Simultaneously he loudly ordered: “Out of bed, Corporal! Your services are needed.”


“Kakogo cherta,” Alexei managed, sitting up in bed, his muscular torso partially hidden behind his forearms as he tried vainly to shield his eyes with the palms of his hands.


“Speak English!” Nikolai ordered, raising his voice. Ever since they had landed in Montreal, they had vowed to only speak English to avoid giving away their origins since all they knew in Dutch were a few simple phrases.


“Hell,” Alexei snapped in return, still trying to cover his face. “Close the damn drapes!”


“Not on your life,” Nikolai said. “It’s reveille! As I said, your services are needed.”


“What do you mean my ‘services are needed’?” Alexei fired back. “Aren’t we finally getting out of this hellhole today? Isn’t that what we decided at dinner last night?”


“There’s been a change of plans. Viktor believes it is appropriate to do a final harvest and release. He and I have been out in the lab preparing the expression vectors since five 
a.m
. Of course, that means we need another batch of yeast, and we need it now. You and Dmitry have to head back to Albany immediately and hope to hell they have it in stock.”


Alexei mumbled a string of curse words under his breath.


“I’m warning you. Only English!”


“Okay, but why the change of plans?”


“Because, as I said, Viktor thinks it is appropriate, and he’s in charge.”


“Shit!” Alexei voiced. “That means there could be trouble.”


“What are you talking about?” Nikolai asked hesitantly. “What do you mean ‘trouble’?”


“Last night’s paramilitary exercise with the Diehard Patriots ended up being a mild disaster.”


“I’m listening,” Nikolai said, feeling a stab of concern. This close to the end of the mission wasn’t the time for trouble.


“Ethan Jameson started the evening out acting weird, irrational and irritated, and it went downhill from there. Something had to be done.”


“What was troubling him?”


“The same thing that has troubled him for weeks, namely that you and Viktor never show up for the practice maneuvers, particularly the night operations. I warned you time and again that he was taking your absence personally. Last night toward the end of the training exercise he said he’d had enough and that today he wanted us gone from here. He then threatened if we didn’t do it, he’d have the Essex Falls police come out and force us off this property. He threatened to tell the police we’re not from the Netherlands despite what our passports say. And you know something…I believed him, and so did Dmitry. Ethan was beyond just making threats, which he’d been doing for weeks.”


“Good God!” Nikolai murmured. “Why didn’t you wake us when you got home and let us know about this? Why have you waited until now to tell me?”


“Because I took care of him, case closed,” Alexei said. He threw back the sheet and stood up. He was dressed only in undershorts. He began pulling on his casual clothes.


“Exactly what do you mean ‘case closed’?” Nikolai questioned with growing concern.


“After the operation, Dmitry and I came back here and got some of the binary nerve agent that we brought for emergencies. Then I went back out and used enough of it to take care of the situation.”


“Uh-oh! So, you think he is dead?”


“Without doubt. Either that or he’s at death’s door. I applied enough for an elephant on the door handle of his truck.”


“Shit! Using Novichok is like leaving a goddamn Russian calling card. Didn’t you think of that?”


“Who’s going to guess it’s Novichok up here in the middle of nowhere,” Alexei said. “Besides, the ass worked for a pest control company, which will get the blame. Who’d make the association of it being a manufactured nerve agent…the sole country doctor here in town? I don’t think so, not in the short run, and I thought we were getting out of here this afternoon.”


“Why didn’t you just shoot him in the confusion of last night’s operation and be done with it?”


“At the time it was too chaotic. I didn’t even see Ethan at the end of the maneuver to be honest. You have no idea how confusing it was, with darkness and drinking and gunfire the whole damn night.”


“Somehow, I can imagine from those times when I was present, as it had been bedlam. But now, with this development, it’s going to be even more important that we finish up this final harvest as rapidly as possible and get the hell out of here.”


“Why don’t we just skip it, so we can leave this afternoon like we talked about?”


“It would be all right with me, but my sense is that Viktor is not going to go for it. He’s committed to this final release. Considering how well this mission has gone, I think he hates to see it over. My sense is that he’s already viewing his theta prion discovery as his crowning life’s work in the service of Mother Russia. But what do I know? Listen, here’s what we’ll do. While I go and roust Dmitry, you finish dressing and duck downstairs to tell Viktor. Who knows? 
Maybe he’ll change his mind about leaving today, although I doubt it. If not, you and Dmitry will be in a position to get right on the road. If what we need, particularly the yeast, is in stock in Albany and you get it back here, with a little bit of luck we can be on our way home in days.”


“One last question,” Alexei said as Nikolai headed out into the hallway and started toward Dmitry’s door. He had to yell to be heard. “What are the chances we’ll be going through New York on our way home like we talked about?”


“Nonexistent,” Nikolai called over his shoulder as he reached Dmitry’s door. A moment later he disappeared from view.


“Ay ay ay,” Alexei groaned as he turned and sat on the edge of the bed to pull on his shoes. It seemed that things were rapidly going to hell.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 3


Tuesday, July 22, 6:15 
a.m.


New York, New York


John Stapleton, or Jack as he was known to the world, reacted by reflex as if he were a coiled spring. Almost the exact moment his smartphone stirred and began to sound its wake-up alarm, his hand shot out from beneath the bedsheet and snatched the instrument up from the night table. In an instant, even before he was completely awake and conscious of time and place, he’d turned it off. Only then did he focus on what he was holding, comprehend what it was, and quietly lay it back down on the night table.


Gently pushing himself up on an elbow, he looked over at Laurie Montgomery Stapleton, his wife, who was lying next to him. His frantic effort to turn the alarm off as soon as possible was born of his desire not to bother her since she could sleep for another half hour or so before her trio of alarms sounded. As per usual, she’d not stirred. Her ability to sleep through his alarm in the morning never failed to impress him because he was just the opposite when it came to any alarm whatsoever.


Knowing it best not to tempt fate by lying back down and possibly falling back asleep himself, Jack immediately swung his pajama clad legs out from under the sheet and sat up. From where he was sitting, he had a direct view of the two oversized, double-hung windows of their master bedroom that faced out onto 106th Street on the Upper West Side. Although black-out, honeycomb shades covered both, more than enough sunlight was currently penetrating the sides of each to adequately light the room. It was also an indication that the sun was shining, meaning the weather was fine. For Jack this was positive news since he was anticipating his usual bicycle commute to work on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, which he did almost every day, and he certainly preferred good weather. Purposefully he never bothered to check the weather the previous evening, as he had enough to worry about, and he just accepted whatever conditions he had to endure.


Both Jack and Laurie were doctors with a subspecialty in forensic pathology who had been working for longer than they liked to admit at the Office of Chief Medical Examiner, OCME, in New York City, the largest such organization in the world and one of the oldest. Currently Laurie was officially the chief medical examiner, although a number of months previously she’d asked the deputy chief, Dr. George Fontworth, with the mayor’s blessing, to take over most of the day-to-day responsibilities of being the chief so that she could refresh her forensic pathology knowledge, which was her real love.


But things had not worked out quite as she’d planned because simultaneously with her wish to rejuvenate her professional medical credentials, the political demands of being chief peaked with the need for a new autopsy building, which she could not in good conscience hand off to George, as dealing with the involved personalities 
required significant interpersonal tact, which wasn’t George’s strength. The result was that she wasn’t getting nearly as much practical experience doing autopsies and reading the literature as she wanted and was more than a bit frustrated.


Jack stood up and set out. The central air-conditioning made the bare oak flooring feel cold to his feet as he rounded the end of the bed en route to take his morning wake-up shower. But halfway he paused and looked back down at his wife. He couldn’t help but feel sorry for her being caught up in time-sensitive negotiations for a new, very needed NYC morgue. The issue had become a huge deal because they were about to be kicked out of the building where the current morgue was located and moved into new quarters in the massive $1.6-billion Kips Bay health science research center that would soon be built four blocks south on First Avenue. The problem was that there was a scramble for space and location within the new complex by other competing city organizations, which required Laurie to enter into continuing nonstop negotiations in hopes of getting what was needed. Whatever the outcome, there was little doubt that it was going to seriously affect the function of the OCME for the next century.


Jack wished there was something he could do to help her get off the treadmill she was on, but he couldn’t think of anything. In many ways the problem was that she was ultimately too damn responsible for her own good. If he were the chief, a position he never would have accepted, he’d spend a day or two making his points and then just turn the whole mess over to the bureaucrats and be done with it. Unfortunately there was no way Laurie would do anything similar.


Shrugging his shoulders at her honorable personality and accepting his own limitations, Jack continued on into the bathroom. Two minutes later he was standing under the showerhead and 
letting the water pound against the top of his head with his eyes closed. This morning routine had a symbolic aspect, washing away the previous day’s problems and preparing him to face the new day. Then to his utter surprise he became aware that he wasn’t alone. Opening his eyes he saw that Laurie had joined him in the double shower and turned on the second one.


“What the hell! I don’t believe this!” he shouted loud enough to be heard over the sound of the two powerful showerheads. “How come you’re up so early? What’s up?”


“I told you last night that I have what I hope will be the final early morning meeting at eight with Miss Waters, the dean of Hunter-Bellevue School of Nursing, in her office. The OCME transport team is picking me up in about a half hour from now. Don’t you remember?”


Jack inwardly grimaced at this latest minor faux pas on his part. Now that she mentioned it, he did remember her telling him. Unfortunately she’d told him right after he’d come home completely exhausted from his almost nightly pickup basketball session. He was relieved that she didn’t call him out on this latest memory gaffe, something which often did irk her. Instead, to his relief, she concentrated on her shower. Five minutes later they were both finished and stepped out into the bathroom proper to begin toweling off.


“After today’s meeting, do you see yourself doing more autopsies like you’d hoped?” Jack asked, trying to change the issue to something she’d find more appealing as he dried his back.


“Wouldn’t that be nice,” Laurie said. “We’ll have to see. I am hoping that we’ll come to an agreement this morning, at least between us and Hunter College, which is the last sticking point for getting the new morgue in the best location in the new science center. We’re close. There’s no question.”


After hanging up his towel, Jack stepped into the changing room to start dressing.


Meanwhile Laurie, facing the mirror over her sink, turned her attention to her hair. “It’s so different with the kids gone!” she called while getting out the hair dryer. Before switching it on, she added: “I have to tell you: It’s hard for me to adjust, especially it being only the second morning.”


“You got that right,” Jack called back through the open bathroom door loud enough to be heard. That Sunday the whole family had driven up to the Catskill Mountains to visit two different summer camps. At the first, they had deposited Jack Junior—or JJ—who was now fourteen and in the eighth grade, and then at the second it had been Emma, who was now age eight and had been in a specialized school for almost a year. Although JJ had been to camp every summer since he was seven, this was the first time for Emma. Since she was on the autistic spectrum, Jack and Laurie both had their fingers crossed that the camp experience was going to work out. Yet they were hopeful since they had been encouraged by Emma’s behavior therapist, who’d been very much in favor of the plan, and so far they’d not heard of any problems.


“And with Dorothy and Caitlin gone at the same time, it’s like a different planet around here,” Jack added, still yelling. Dorothy Montgomery was Laurie’s mother, who had been living with them for the last several years, following the death of Laurie’s emotionally distant, cardiac surgeon father. Dorothy was currently visiting a friend out in the Hamptons. Caitlin O’Connell, their live-in nanny, was off on her yearly two-week vacation visiting family on the West Coast.


“Truly,” Laurie agreed as she continued to blow-dry her long, thick auburn hair, which she considered her best feature. It took 
significant effort to deal with it each morning, but she thought it well worth it.


When finished dressing in his summer uniform of stone-colored khaki trousers, chambray shirt, and knit tie, he stepped back into the bathroom just as Laurie was putting away the dryer.


“When I came in from basketball last night did I tell you the news about Warren? I can’t remember.”


“I don’t think so,” Laurie said as she leaned toward the mirror and began to apply a small amount of makeup. “What’s up with Warren?”


Warren, an athletic Black man in his early thirties and a natural born leader, lived in the neighborhood and played basketball as often as Jack on the court just across the street from Jack and Laurie’s townhouse. This was the court that Jack had paid to have renovated with new backboards and outdoor lighting. According to Jack, Warren was the best player of the thirty or so local men, women, boys, and girls who showed up on a reasonably regular basis for pickup games, mostly during the spring, summer, and fall. Jack, Laurie, and Warren had become quite good friends and had even all gone on a wild trip to West Africa that they still frequently reminisced about.


“He told me last night that he has a new girlfriend who he wants us to meet. What do you think? Are you up for it? I told him that I thought the timing was good because JJ and Emma were off at camp.”


“I’m sorry to hear he’s given up on the last one,” Laurie said. “I rather liked her. But, sure, we can get together with them, provided it doesn’t turn into a late night unless it’s Friday or Saturday. But you know that. What’s her name?”


“Oops,” Jack said, making an exaggerated painful expression. “I 
was afraid you’d ask. To be truthful, I don’t remember. But I’ll ask him tonight.”


“No need,” Laurie said, finishing with her makeup. “I’ll meet her when I meet her, so say yes. Try to pick a weekend.”


“Will do,” Jack said as he headed out of the changing room on his way down to the kitchen. “I’ll make some coffee then be on my way.” Jack made it a point, come rain or shine, to be on his bike by quarter of seven to get to the OCME well before any of the other medical examiners, or MEs as they liked to refer to themselves.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 4


Tuesday, July 22, 7:10 
a.m.


New York, New York


Putting a bit of effort into his pedaling while heading east on East 30th Street to up his speed, Jack just made the light at the intersection of First Avenue before it changed. Consequently he was able to sail across the otherwise chockablock main north–south roadway. Reaching the opposite side, he then had to begin braking as he coasted downhill alongside the worse-for-wear, old OCME building. Surrounded by scaffolding that apparently was put up to protect pedestrians from falling debris, the six-story structure was slated for demolition as soon as a new morgue was available, hopefully four blocks south in the soon-to-be built Kips Bay Science Park and Research Campus.


He braked hard when he reached the turn-in for the OCME vans that brought in the dead bodies and the funeral home hearses that came to pick them up. After riding between two OCME Sprinter vans, he came to a stop at the loading bay. Hopping off his relatively new, fire-engine-red Trek road bike and hoisting it up onto 
his shoulder, he climbed the half dozen steps to enter the building’s basement. After waving hello to the guard in his security cubical and the night mortuary tech in his office, Jack headed down the interior hall to where he always locked his bike to a convenient standpipe. This was the same location where the Hart Island coffins that were used to bury the unclaimed dead were stored. Since Jack was the only OCME employee to commute by bike, there was no official designated location.


It was now close to 7:30 
a.m.
, so Jack lost no time getting himself up the back stairs to the first floor on his way to the Identification Section, which was where families gathered to identify their dead. In the mornings the ID room also served as the section of the morgue where the day began for the medical examiners. Here on the central desk were all the autopsy folders of the cases that had come in late the previous day and during the night, to be gone over by one of the more junior medical examiners who happened to be on call for that week. It was the on-call ME who decided which cases needed to be done.


As Jack was about to enter, he found himself wondering if Laurie had already arrived, which he assumed was the case, as she was to be picked up soon after he had left, at 7:15. If so, at that moment she would not be not too far away in her office in the Administration Section, which was on the same floor but the opposite side of the building.


The moment he did enter he immediately caught sight of Dr. Nala Washington, one of the recently hired MEs. A slim, youthful Black woman who wore her hair in stylish cornrows, she made Jack feel ancient in comparison. When he had originally joined the OCME, most all the MEs were male. Times had certainly changed. Now half were female, and from Jack’s perspective they all seemed 
to be getting younger and younger every year. At that moment Nala was just seating herself at the central ID department desk with the stack of new autopsy folders in front of her. She would go through them, decide which cases needed to be autopsied, and then assign them to the various MEs.


The second person Jack saw was Vinnie Amendola, one of the more experienced mortuary technicians, who had been chosen way back when to come in early to make the communal coffee. Vinnie, already dressed in scrubs, was busy at his assigned task in the small kitchenette installed for just that purpose. He and Jack, always the first two to arrive, had formed a close bond over the years. Since Jack invariably started his autopsies before anyone else, often even before the other mortuary techs showed up, Vinnie usually assisted, and over time they had clicked personality-wise. It was obvious to everyone at the OCME that they shared a deprecatory sense of humor, often mercilessly teasing each other. At the same time, it was with obvious mutual respect and appreciation.


“Good morning, Nala,” Jack said brightly. He also waved to Vinnie, who had turned when he’d heard his voice. “What you got? Anything particularly interesting this morning?” Jack began glancing briefly at the autopsy folders as he did every morning. The whole reason Jack made a decided effort to get to the OCME early every morning was to have this opportunity to cherry-pick through the cases that had come in overnight or the previous afternoon to find the most challenging.


Although he acknowledged this was not particularly fair to the other MEs, he justified it because he always made it a point to do far more autopsies than anyone else, carrying much more than his share of the burden, and everybody knew it. He recognized and admitted he was in a very real sense a workaholic. For him it was a 
way of controlling the mental demons that still plagued him from the tragic death of his first family, a wife and two young daughters, in a commuter plane crash decades earlier. Despite the passage of time and having an entirely new family, the plight of his first still haunted him, as he still felt responsible. They’d been flying to see him when he was retraining in forensic pathology.


“I haven’t any idea as of yet,” Nala said. “I just sat down and haven’t had a chance to go through the cases. But there’s got to be something interesting, considering the number. As you can see it was one busy night for our MLIs.” The medicolegal investigators were members of a relatively new career path open to physician assistants who were willing to undergo significant extra forensic training. It was the MLIs who responded to every death in the city to determine if an investigation was required, meaning a possible scene visit and an autopsy. “But before you get caught up in going over the cases, you need to know that your detective friend is here waiting for you.” She gestured over Jack’s shoulder toward one of the two aged overstuffed leather chairs that faced each other on the opposite side of the room.


Mildly surprised, Jack turned and caught sight of Detective Lieutenant Lou Soldano, who was sound asleep with his arms splayed out on the chair’s very worn ones. He was as usual attired in civilian clothes that looked as if he’d been living in them for days. His white shirt, which was more gray than white, was unbuttoned at the collar, and the knot of his gravy-stained tie loosened. The open 
New York Times
 on his chest rose and fell with each of his deep breaths.


Always glad to see him, Jack immediately walked over. Lou Soldano was a particularly close friend of both Laurie’s and Jack’s. He was known to frequently show up at the OCME. Early in his 
homicide career, he’d been impressed with the power of forensics, specifically in regard to solving difficult homicide cases, and accordingly made it a point to observe autopsies where there were questions that the post could answer. This appreciation of forensics had begun first with Laurie, who had preceded Jack as a medical examiner at the OCME, and which had led to a social connection between the two.


When it quickly became clear that romance was not in the cards—mostly because of Lou’s insecurities and Jack’s arrival on the scene, not only as a medical examiner but also as a potential contender for Laurie’s affections—Lou became Jack’s strong advocate. Consequently, the three ended up becoming committed friends who saw one another socially on a fairly regular basis. Now, they still did on occasion, but much less with Jack and Laurie’s growing family demands as the parents of JJ and Emma.


Standing over the sleeping Lou, Jack looked down on him with affection and concern. The man’s jacket was unbuttoned and the lapels had fallen to the sides such that his holstered service revolver could be seen. Even in sleep he appeared exhausted and certainly far from healthy. He was even more of a workaholic than Jack, which took some effort. In Lou’s case it involved often being out all night on homicide cases after having already put in a full day. On top of that abuse, he was unable to stop an entrenched habit of chain-smoking even though he supposedly tried just about every other day. As a consequence, his face appeared pasty with a doughy consistency. Even more remarkable were the strikingly dark circles under his eyes.


“Hey, my friend,” Jack said softly as he gave Lou’s right shoulder a bit of a shake and a squeeze. “Sorry to wake you, but you need to get yourself home and get some real sleep.”


Lou awakened with a jolt and reached for his gun by reflex. Quickly recognizing Jack, he immediately relaxed and sank back into the chair. “Out of the question,” he managed. “I need to have some answers on a potentially volatile case before I turn in. I’m afraid there’s been another police shooting, and I’d like to head off a potential clamor if at all possible.”


“All right, what’s the story in a nutshell?” Jack asked as he backed up a couple of steps and sat down on the arm of the other overstuffed chair, keeping his eyes glued to Lou.


“Any of you guys want coffee?” Vinnie called out from where he was standing by the kitchenette.


Both Jack and Lou raised their hands.


“Coming up!” Vinnie said.


Lou cleared his throat. “The Emergency Service Unit was tasked to go out last night and apprehend a particular bad guy who was a convicted felon and now wanted for murder. It was around midnight.”


Vinnie came by with two mugs of fresh coffee and handed one to Jack and one to Lou. Vinnie knew Lou well from assisting in just about all of Jack’s autopsies that Lou had observed over the years.


“When ESU arrived in multiple vehicles, the target just happened to be getting into his girlfriend’s car as the passenger. The moment they saw all the police cars, they took off, instigating a wild chase. Apparently by accident, or so we believe, the girlfriend ended up making a wrong turn into a dead-end street. When the police pulled up behind blocking them, the perp opened fire resulting in an exchange that quickly terminated with the perp dead from a mortal shot through the front of the chest.”


“What about the girlfriend?”


“She was miraculously spared.”


“So what’s the problem?”


“The ESU lieutenant thinks the perp shot himself, which would be a gift if it can be proved so that the 
Post
 and the 
Daily News
 can’t add to their claim the NYPD always uses excessive force. You get the story.”


“Fair enough,” Jack said. “Okay, but I have to warn you: It might be a long case if multiple bullets are involved because each one will have to be dealt with. I don’t mind doing the autopsy but are you sure you want to hang around? Each bullet will have to be individually traced, not just the fatal one.”


“I assumed as much,” Lou said. “I wasn’t born yesterday.”


“What’s the name?”


“Anderson Stevens.”


Jack stepped back over in front of Nala while sipping his coffee and asked to see Stevens’s folder. After she handed it to him, he slipped out the contents to find the medicolegal investigator’s report, which he quickly scanned. He was pleased to see it was done by Bruce Berman, whom he considered one of the night shift’s particularly thorough MLIs. When he was finished, he glanced up at Nala.


“Is it all right that I take this case?”


“Of course,” Nala said. “You got it.” None of the junior MEs on call ever denied Jack when he offered to do an autopsy, especially one like this that was undoubtedly going to be lengthy and might prove to be politically problematic.


“Front and center, Vinnie!” Jack called out to the mortuary tech who had just settled into the empty easy chair with the 
New York Daily News
 open to the sports section. “Let’s get this Stevens case underway and done before our detective friend collapses from sheer exhaustion.”


“Oh, come on!” Vinnie loudly complained without lowering his 
paper. “Be reasonable. It’s not even seven thirty yet. We’re officially not supposed to start autopsies until eight. I want to have my coffee.”


Jack glanced at Lou, who silently mouthed, 
It’s okay,
 while he motioned as if toasting with his coffee mug, suggesting he was content enjoying it.


Recognizing that Vinnie had a point, Jack redirected his attention back to Nala while taking a sip from his own mug. “While I’m being stymied, what else do you have for me?”


“Unfortunately another chiropractic-neck-adjustment death came in yesterday late afternoon. I know that is one of your particular interests. Do you want it as well? As you say, the Stevens case might drag on for some time.”


“I want it,” Jack said without hesitation. He’d had several such cases in the past where so-called high-velocity, low-amplitude neck manipulations had resulted in death, even of an infant. The cause was usually damage to the vertebral arteries supplying the back part of the brain, particularly the brain stem and cerebellum. He felt strongly that it was an issue the OCME had an obligation to make sure the public was aware of so people knew the risks. As he took the folder from Nala, the phone on the corner of her desk rang. Since it was a rare occurrence, she answered after the first ring.


Jack was about to pull out the MLI report from this new autopsy folder and get the details of the chiropractic case when Nala surprised him by extending the phone over the desk, saying it was the OCME operator looking for him.


Surprised at getting a personal call when he wasn’t yet supposed to be on duty, Jack took the phone. After identifying himself, the OCME operator asked him if he was willing to take a call from a doctor in Essex Falls, New York.


“Where in God’s name is Essex Falls?” Jack questioned. He’d never heard of the place.


“I haven’t the slightest idea,” the operator confessed. “But the caller insists he is a friend of yours.”


“Do you have a name?”


“Yes, of course. It’s Dr. Robert Nielson. He said he was in your medical school graduation class. He said you’d remember him from playing basketball in Bard Hall because he had a better jump shot. Whatever that means.”


“Oh for goodness’ sake,” Jack said with a laugh. “Of course. Put him on!”




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 5


Tuesday, July 22, 7:25 
a.m.


New York, New York


“That’s a bald-faced lie,” Jack said without preamble but with a definite mirthful chuckle. “You never had a better jump shot than I did, Bob. No freaking way!”


“That’s a matter of opinion,” Bob said, laughing in return. “But I was hoping the ruse might get you on the line. Knowing you from years ago, I thought there was a good chance you would be at work on the early side and maybe have a few minutes for a conversation if I was able to get ahold of you. Do you have time for a quick talk or do we need to schedule something? I can only imagine what your day is like at such a busy place.”


“Actually this might be a perfect time,” Jack said. “I’m forcibly becalmed for the moment by a fractious assistant who insists on following the rules. But let me ask: Is this a personal or professional call?”


“It’s about half and half,” Bob admitted. “It’s the professional aspect that forced me to finally do it, but I’ve been meaning to call 
to say hello and welcome you back to the East Coast ever since I found out from our alumni office you were back in New York City as a forensic pathologist. The embarrassing part is that it has taken me so long since you’ve been here now for years.”


“Time flies,” Jack said. “Listen! I do have a few free moments but let me give you my mobile number so you can call me right back. I’m standing in the middle of the OCME’s Identification Section, not in my office. For a bit of privacy, I’d like to at least duck into one of the ID cubicles while we chat. Is that okay with you?”


“Of course,” Bob responded. “I’m at my office desk with pen and paper. Give me the number!”


A moment later Jack handed the phone receiver back to Nala, gave Lou a quick explanation of where he’d be, and then ducked into one of the empty side rooms. He knew Vinnie was totally absorbed in committing to memory all the day’s sports minutiae and wouldn’t miss him. The moment Jack got himself comfortable with his feet up on the cubicle’s ancient, scarred desk, his phone rang. It was Bob.


“This is much better,” Jack said. “So how the hell are you?”


Jack and Bob Nielson had been in the same medical school, Columbia’s College of Physicians & Surgeons, and had graduated together. They had gotten to know each other reasonably well mainly because they had played their share of pickup basketball in the medical school’s residence hall gym for all four years. But after medical school they had gone their separate ways, which was the usual situation unless fellow graduates ended up in the same residency program.


After the usual pleasantries of two old acquaintances catching up on more than twenty years, with each commending the other for being healthy enough to still play pickup basketball, Bob became 
suddenly serious and said: “Before I go any further, let me say how sorry I was to hear about the tragedy of your family’s passing. I didn’t know what to say, so I didn’t say anything, as lame as that excuse sounds.”


“I can understand,” Jack said. “Your intuition was well-founded. I was a basket case when I first got to the city. And it is still a very sensitive subject that I even avoid talking about, to be honest.”


“I can certainly understand that,” Bob said. “I’ve heard you’ve been making a name for yourself in your second specialty, forensic pathology. As I recall when you left medical school you were intent on ophthalmology.”


“You’ve a good memory! Yes, I headed out to Chicago for an eye residency and ended up practicing ophthalmology in Champaign, Illinois. But I quickly learned the hard way that business in the form of private equity was taking over clinical medicine, and as far as I was concerned, it was ruining it for both patient and doctor. That was the reason I went back and did another residency in a specialty that wasn’t dependent on health insurance companies.”


“I can certainly attest to business interests ruining medicine. You’re unfortunately one hundred percent correct. And you certainly haven’t allowed any grass to grow under your feet in your new specialty. I saw an article in the alumni news about how you thwarted a number of potential infectious disease outbreaks in the city, particularly one involving anthrax, and how you also exposed a transgenic xenotransplant conspiracy among other revelations. Bravo!”


“I try to stay busy,” Jack said with mild embarrassment.


“How about the social arena, if I might ask with some trepidation?”


“Actually, that’s worked out far better than I could have hoped,” 
Jack said. “I have a loving wife and two kids, one eight and the other fourteen.”


“Bravo again!”


“How about yourself, Bob?”


“Family wise I have a wife and three kids: two out of college and one still an undergraduate.”


“What about professionally?” Jack asked. “I’m sorry but I don’t remember your specialty interest.”


“Probably because I didn’t know when we graduated, but I’ve ended up being in country-style general practice. I did an internal medicine residency at St. Vincent’s Hospital, which unfortunately closed its doors in 2010 to the chagrin of all of us who trained there. As soon as I finished, I fled back here to the small town in the Adirondacks where I grew up. It’s called Essex Falls, and it is in Hamilton County, the least populated county in New York State. I truly missed the lifestyle the entire time I was in New York City as it is a magical place to live and raise a family if you like the outdoors, which I do. When I returned, I joined what was then a reasonably good-sized general medical practice set up by the town’s major employer, the Bennet Shoe Company.”


“And you are still in the same practice?”


“Yes and no. Strangely enough, the same year that St. Vincent’s Hospital closed, the Bennet Shoe Company went out of business. The effect on the town was catastrophic as three-quarters of its inhabitants were laid off with little other employment opportunities available.”


“Good grief!” Jack exclaimed. “What happened to the company’s medical practice?”


“It went out of business with the rest of it.”


“But you were able to continue practicing?” Jack asked with 
obvious admiration. He couldn’t imagine what that could have been like, caring for an unemployed population on top of the difficulties of dealing with health insurance companies and the government via Medicaid.


“I continued practicing, but obviously the practice changed dramatically. In fact, I am the only one still here holding down the fort, so to speak. All the other docs abandoned ship for greener pastures. And the town’s population is less than half what it had been, and those who stayed are not nearly as well-off financially. But as challenging as all that has been and continues to be, it’s certainly not why I wanted to talk to you this morning. In addition to being the town’s sole doc, I’m also the Hamilton County coroner, and it is in that capacity that I was hoping to get in touch with you.”


“What?” Jack spurted with a questioning laugh and a wrinkled brow, wondering if Bob Nielson was teasing him. “Are you being serious or pulling my leg? Let me get this straight: You’re saying you are the county coroner as well as the town’s only primary care doctor?”


“I am. I’m being serious, truly,” Bob said. “I know it sounds a bit bizarre but let me tell you how it happened. The previous county coroner passed away, and the member of the Hamilton County Board of Supervisors who represents Essex Falls called and asked me if I would run for the office. It’s an elected position. She also informed me that a general practitioner over in Warren County was serving as their county coroner, and it has been working out well. Anyway, I looked into it and even called the doc over in Warren County to get his take. And after all was said and done, it did seem to me there were distinct benefits of having someone with at least a medical background on the job even if there hadn’t been any formal forensic training. I also thought I could do a bit of reading to familiarize myself with the specialty, which I have been doing after 
I ended up being elected five years ago. Anyway, it’s been going reasonably well until recently and particularly today when I recognized I’m in over my head.”


“I’m impressed,” Jack said with another more mirthful laugh. “With that story, I’m finding myself questioning if I really had to spend the five years I did in forensic training.”


“I know it all sounds a bit crazy, but up here in the wilds you have to make do.”


“Okay, I’m guessing you are leading up to asking me a few professional questions, perhaps even run a few tests for you, or maybe give you a couple of references. Shoot! I’m at your service.”


“To be honest,” Bob admitted, “I’m afraid I have something a bit more demanding in mind. The problem is that over the last couple of weeks as the county coroner, I’ve had two cases that have been troubling me with bizarre forensic circumstances and another completely different one yesterday. I tried to reach out to the coroner in Saratoga Springs, who’s had some forensic training, and then the medical examiner in Albany with the first two, but all they did was repeat a test that I had already done and not much else. So, rather than to try to give you the specifics over the phone or by email, particularly on yesterday’s case, I’m hoping that I might talk you into leaving the big, hot, sweaty city to come up here to paradise for a few days and help me do this autopsy and then consult with me about the two previous confusing cases. You can count on being offered incredible accommodations for your entire family for as long as you might want to stay.


“From many years’ personal experience I know it’s the absolute worst time of the year in Manhattan weather-wise, whereas here it is the middle of our best season, a gorgeous summer with warm sunny days and crisp, cool nights. And before you say anything, let 
me tell you about our innumerable, pristine, crystal clear lakes filled with bass and trout, our forested mountains with hundreds of waterfalls along with our tennis courts and even pickleball if you are into that. It’s an incredible outdoorsman’s utopia all within a four-hour drive from Manhattan. And on top of all that, I can offer you some decent pickup basketball, provided you don’t mind losing.”


“Losing?” Jack questioned with another guffaw. “You are being unfair! You’re using psychological warfare!”


“I know, but I’m desperate,” Bob added with his own laughter. He remembered that in medical school, Jack had been by far the most committed basketball devotee.


“Well, that’s an unexpected and interesting offer,” Jack said. He surprised himself by not dismissing the idea out of hand, which he would have done under normal circumstances. What occurred to him was that the timing seemed amazingly fortuitous, with both JJ and Emma having been just deposited at camp plus his unspoken wish to somehow get Laurie away from the grind in which she was ensnared. A kind of adult camp experience for the two of them, which traveling up to Essex Falls might be, could be just what the doctor ordered on multiple fronts, plus, if need be they’d be closer if something went amiss with the kids in the Catskill Mountains and one or both needed to be picked up.


“Are you still there?” Bob questioned when Jack remained silent for several beats.


“Yes, sorry. What kind of forensic circumstances are you referring to?” Jack asked, his mind still mulling over the idea of him and Laurie spending a few days in a summer paradise. It sounded heavenly. They hadn’t had such an opportunity of togetherness since they’d gone on their honeymoon the previous century, as he described the timing of their last trip together.


“I was hoping you’d ask,” Bob said eagerly. “A year or so ago, did you happen to see the 
New York Times
 article about an outbreak of some mysterious brain disease in a small town in New Brunswick Province in Canada?”


“No, I can’t say I did. I’m not much of a newshound.”


“Too bad, because I’m concerned I’m at the outset of a similar circumstance, which I suppose is not too surprising since the Canadian border is less than a hundred miles to the north. The two cases I mentioned seemed to be the same, and I sent off samples to NMS Labs to confirm what the autopsy suggested: early-onset, rapidly progressive Alzheimer’s disease. Then both tests came back negative, which surprised and confused me.


“But those cases pale compared to the death I had yesterday of a young, local troublemaker of sorts, who worked for a local pest control company. Early in the morning he came flying into my office with rapidly advancing symptoms of organophosphate poisoning, including all sorts of muscle spasms that quickly became fatal. He needs to be autopsied and the diagnosis confirmed to try to figure out how he got poisoned, if he had been poisoned. The last thing I’d want to see is a rash of such cases, and I’m smart enough to know I’m in over my head. Nor do I want to send the case to either Saratoga Springs or Albany. I’m thinking it is a local emergency of sorts.”


“Well, that’s certainly not going to be the first case of a pest control person being poisoned with an organophosphate. Have you found out what product he’d been using and how it was being administered?”


“That’s the rub. He’d not yet been to work when he came down with the symptoms. I confirmed this with his boss.”


“Was anything found in his vehicle?”


“No pesticides. Only an AR-15 and night vision goggles.”


Jack gave a short, mirthless laugh. “Why the hell did he have an AR-15 and night vision goggles?”


“It’s kind of a mild epidemic up here in paradise. Just about all the late millennials and early generation Z males who have remained in Essex Falls—there’s not that many—have an AR-15 in their pickup. It’s a reminder of a virtual explosion of local-grown right-wing extremism we’ve experienced here in Essex Falls ever since the Bennet Shoe Company closed its doors.”


“That’s unfortunate.”


“Yes, but it’s not so bad. They pretty much keep to themselves with their intermittent nighttime maneuvers, or so they call them, which are really beer drinking, target practice social events held in the woods. For me it just means I have to set a few bones now and then. How it is that no one has been mistakenly shot, I have no clue but am thankful. So, what do you say about my vacation offer in exchange for a couple of hours of your professional expertise?”


“Did you know my wife, Laurie, is also a forensic pathologist?” Jack said. “She’s considerably more well-known in forensic pathology circles than I. In fact, she happens to be the chief here at the OCME. If we were to come for a visit, it would be a two-for-one deal.”


“I had no idea, but the more the merrier. Obviously she’d be more than welcome. Does this mean you are considering it? I’d be very beholden, and it would also be fun as a little trip down memory lane. And I’m not kidding about the basketball. We play at least twice a week all summer long, usually three-on-three but occasionally five-on-five, and you’d be more than welcome.”


“That’s very tempting,” Jack said. “Here in the city, I continue to play two, three, maybe even four times a week. And the timing of this possible junket might be perfect. Just this past weekend, we dropped our two children off at camps in the Catskills, so we are 
conveniently childless for the next two weeks. And maybe even more important, just this morning I was thinking that Laurie needs an excuse to take a break.”


“Whoa! That sounds encouraging….”


“You mentioned accommodations. Can I ask for details about that? It might help when I bring this idea up with Laurie later this morning.”


“Of course,” Bob said. “Some of the homes of the Bennet Shoe Company management have recently been renovated by a private equity company, which I can further explain if and when you do end up coming up here. I was thinking of renting the owner’s mansion for you. It’s a late nineteenth-century Victorian with a dozen bedrooms, so you’d have oodles of space. It’s black with all sorts of towers and turrets and is gorgeous in a storybook sort of way. It’s a few miles out of town on several wooded acres on a small pristine private lake with views of the surrounding mountains. You’d love it.”


“Sounds like the opposite side of the world from our digs here in Manhattan.”


“You will think you are on the opposite side of the world. Believe me!”


“If we were to come, when do you have in mind?”


“Just as soon as you can arrange it. The body is here at my office in my walk-in cooler, and the family is eager for a proper burial. Well, at least the mother is.”


“You have cold storage at your medical office? I’m impressed.”


“I bought the old Bennet Clinic building more than ten years ago when it was available for a song, so I have lots of room. It’s next to the huge old original mill and of the same Venetian vernacular architectural style, which I can assure you is not what you’ll be expecting to see way up here in the deep woods. Since I had the 
space, I went ahead and made myself an autopsy room back when I was elected the county coroner, and I included a cooler. You’ll probably find the setup rather primitive, but it works for me.”


“I’m getting the impression you’ve taken this coroner job seriously.”


“I have. I figured if I was going to do it, I’d give it my best shot.”


“Admirable,” Jack said with sincerity. “Okay, Bob, here’s what I’ll do. I’ll bring up the idea of our taking a bit of a working vacation with Laurie. She’s caught up in an important meeting this morning, so I probably won’t be able to speak with her until sometime around eleven. Tell me, are you calling me on your mobile?”


“I am, indeed.”


“Good, so I have your number. I’ll get back to you as soon as I get to talk with her. I personally like the idea, especially if I can get you to eat your words about your having a better jump shot than I.”


Bob laughed heartily. “I knew that would get your full attention.”


Jack laughed as well. “If the tables were turned, I can imagine my using the same ploy. Anyway, I was serious when I said your timing is impeccable, and it very well might work out. I’ll get back to you later today.”


“Great,” Bob responded. “I’ll be waiting.”


Jack disengaged the call and checked the time. It wasn’t quite 7:45, making him question if he might be able to catch Laurie before she headed down to Hunter College for her meeting with the dean. As excited as he’d become about the possibility of going up to Essex Falls for a little working vacation, he was impatient to broach the subject with her and hear her reaction. But the moment he thought about it further, he decided it was better to wait until after her meeting with the hope her discussions went well.


Allowing his feet to drop to the floor, Jack headed out of the ID 
cubicle feeling jazzed up. In the main area things hadn’t changed. Nala was still going over the previous night’s autopsy folders, Vinnie was still hidden behind his 
Daily News,
 and Lou had fallen back asleep.


Stepping over to Vinnie, Jack snatched away the mortuary tech’s paper. “Let’s go, big guy, time’s a wasting,” he said, initiating one of their daily sarcastically playful, back-and-forth exchanges. His plan was to get Vinnie on his way down to the “pit’ ” to set up the autopsy on the bullet-ridden felon. Jack then planned on helping himself to another coffee before awaking Lou. The coffee idea was less about an additional shot of caffeine than a moment to fantasize about him and Laurie enjoying a much-needed vacation. In his mind Essex Falls did sound like a summer paradise, especially since it included reconnecting with a dear, old medical school friend and forcing Laurie to take a much-needed break. With those thoughts in mind, he had little reason to suspect what the reality would ultimately turn out to be.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 6


Tuesday, July 22, 10:44 
a.m.


New York, New York


“Okay,” Jack said. “On three!” He then proceeded to count and when he reached three, he and Vinnie lifted Anderson Stevens’s hollowed out body from the autopsy table over onto the gurney Vinnie had positioned appropriately. At that time of the morning all eight tables in the autopsy room were in full swing, and the morgue was filled with the usual sounds and muffled conversations of the other medical examiners and mortuary technicians, who were all busy on their own cases.


Detective Lieutenant Lou Soldano had long since departed, as soon as he had learned what he’d wanted to learn, that Stevens had indeed administered the fatal shot himself. Jack had been able to provide that confirmation before the autopsy even started by studying the full-body X-ray following a brief inspection of the corpse. The mortal shot through the front of the chest had been by a .45-caliber weapon, and the fatal bullet that was lodged by the victim’s spine was definitely .45 caliber. This matched the gun Lou 
said had been found in the front seat of the car. The ESU officers had all been using .38-caliber pistols, at least according to Lou, and also according to him the gun found was definitely not a “throw-down weapon.”


After Jack helped Vinnie deposit the Stevens corpse in the cooler, he said: “Go ahead and set up the chiropractic case. I’ve got to run upstairs and have a short chat with the chief, if she’s back from her meeting. One way or the other, I won’t be long.”


“Yeah, famous last words,” Vinnie said dismissively.


“Scout’s honor,” Jack said, flashing a Boy Scout’s sign with a guilty smile. He knew there’d been plenty of times he’d gotten waylaid on a supposedly short errand and kept Vinnie waiting.


After depositing his gown in an appropriate receptacle outside the locker room, Jack headed for the back stairs to get up to the first floor. Jogging down the main hallway, he soon reached the administration area. As per usual both secretaries, Cheryl and Edna, were on the phone, speaking into headsets. Both Laurie’s and George’s office doors were closed. George Fontworth was the deputy chief medical examiner, currently acting as the chief while Laurie was supposed to be refreshing her interest and knowledge of forensic pathology.


Hardly slowing, Jack rounded Cheryl’s desk. When she looked up at him, he mouthed silently, 
Is she available?
 and pointed at Laurie’s closed door. To his disappointment, Cheryl shook her head no while waving an index finger in the air.


Jack rolled his eyes but stopped just short of Laurie’s door to wait for a green light to go in.


“She’s on a brief call to the mayor’s office,” Cheryl explained when she concluded her own call. “My advice is to wait. It shouldn’t be long.”


Jack reluctantly nodded. Cheryl Stanford had been the secretary to the chief medical examiner for more than thirty years, and Jack, along with everyone else, respected her opinion. While he waited, he went over his surprising call with Bob Nielson and planned what he was going to say to Laurie. As the hours had passed that morning, he’d become even more convinced that visiting Essex Falls was quite a wonderful opportunity being dropped into their laps.


“Okay, she’s off,” Cheryl said a few minutes later while gesturing toward Laurie’s closed door.


With a nod, Jack knocked but in his eagerness opened the door even before hearing a response. “I got the most unexpected phone call and offer this morning,” Jack said excitedly as he entered Laurie’s bright and cheerful office. Instead of the dark brooding affair the place had been, the office was now painted white with colorful drapes and a couch upholstered in a matching floral fabric. Jack remembered the previous atmosphere all too well from having been “summoned onto the carpet” innumerable times for supposed transgressions during his off-site investigations of difficult cases.


“Interesting!” Laurie responded energetically, sitting behind the giant mahogany partners desk that dominated the room. It was the only remnant from the previous chief. She was clearly in a great mood and as hyped up as Jack, as evidenced by the broad smile dominating her face. “But before I hear about your phone call, let me tell you that I was just talking with the major’s office. I wanted them to be the first to know that there’s now an agreement with the CUNY Hunter College nursing school, which didn’t seem possible just days ago. What it means is that the OCME will be getting the space I wanted in the new Kips Bay Science Park and Research Campus both in terms of location and overall square footage. As I was hoping, it’s going be in the part of the complex along the south 
side of Twenty-sixth Street. Not only are we now finally on track for the desperately needed new pathology center, but there’s a good possibility of a pedestrian walkway bridging Twenty-sixth Street to connect the new morgue with the OCME Hirsch building on the opposite side of the street. What that will mean is no more braving the elements to connect us medical examiners with our forensic laboratories and our medicolegal investigators. I’m pleased beyond words.”


“That’s great news!” Jack said, feeling even more encouraged to tell Laurie his news as he took a seat on the brightly colored couch.


“I can’t tell you how surprised and overjoyed I am,” Laurie added. “I never expected Ms. Waters to change her mind, especially since the CUNY nursing school essentially owns the property where the entire science center is to be constructed.”


“Congratulations. Obviously your persistence has paid off big-time. It calls for a celebration, which my news could be interpreted to be.”


“Oh?” Laurie questioned, eyebrows raised. “Who was this phone call from?”


“Bob Nielson,” Jack said. “Did I ever mention his name to you?”


“I don’t believe so.”


“He was in my medical school class and we played a lot of basketball in Bard Hall together. He was both a good player and student. I know because we did third-year medicine rotation together. But despite all that, after graduation, we lost touch. I didn’t even remember where he’d done his residency or in what specialty.”


“Well, that’s a voice out of the past. I’m sure it was fun to hear from him.”


“For sure. And with a surprising twist. I learned that he’d done an internal medicine residency here in the city and ended up in 
general practice back in his old hometown upstate. The town is called Essex Falls. It’s up in the Adirondacks near Canada.”


“I’ve heard that’s pretty country.”


“According to him, it’s a bit of Shangri-la and he loves it, although even Shangri-la has its problems. More than a dozen years ago the town’s raison d’être and major employer, including his, called the Bennet Shoe Company, suddenly went out of business. Obviously it was a huge economic downturn for the town, and it left him as the solo practitioner.”


“That’s unfortunate. Did you get the impression it was a big practice before the shoe factory closed its doors?”


“I did. But all that has nothing to do with the surprising twist I’m referring to. Five years or so ago, someone encouraged him to run for the county coroner, which he ended up doing, and he won. So, believe it or not, he is the Hamilton County coroner in addition to being the town’s sole medical practitioner.”


For a moment Jack stayed silent, allowing Laurie to absorb what he’d just told her. For a few beats she merely stared back at him, expecting to learn more.


“Surprising, isn’t it?” Jack said.


“Well, I don’t know. I think it makes a certain amount of sense for a county coroner to have legitimate medical training. It is certainly better than not having any medical training. Has he taken any forensic pathology courses?”


“I don’t believe so, but I don’t know for certain. He says he’s done a significant amount of reading. I guess I found his being a coroner more surprising than you.”


“Apparently,” Laurie agreed. “So, what was this offer you mentioned?”


“He’s offered us what sounds like fabulous accommodations in 
a summer paradise if we would be willing to drive up to Essex Falls and assist him in autopsying a case of a twentysomething male pest control employee whom he believes died yesterday of organophosphate poisoning. He’s concerned because the patient apparently had yet to report to work in the morning. He’d also like to get our take on several cases of neurodegenerative disease deaths he’s already autopsied. In return he promised we’d be staying at a Victorian mansion. It sounds like quite a house with something like a dozen bedrooms.”


“That would be an experience. You sound eager to do this.”


“I suppose I am. Aren’t you? A little?”


“You know as well as I that trying to do a reasonable autopsy in makeshift, fly-by-night conditions is no picnic. Why don’t you have him ship the body down here, and we can do it here? We can have him come to the city and assist.”


“He’s very committed to us coming up there,” Jack said. “He’s very proud of the place. And it sounds like the conditions he works under as a coroner aren’t so bad. He told me he’s created an actual autopsy room that even has a walk-in cooler. I’m assuming it’s a reasonable setup.”


“That does sound better than I would have guessed,” Laurie said with a wry smile. “Let me ask you something. Does our going up there, if we do, have anything at all to do with basketball?”


“He floated the idea,” Jack admitted guiltily.


“I thought so,” Laurie said with a laugh. “And it’s not that I am against the idea. Actually, it sounds like it might be rather pleasant for a few days, and I am in a celebratory mood.”


“That was my thought from the get-go, especially with both children at camp. I think the timing is damn perfect. But even more important, I think it would be delightful for you and me just to get 
away for a few days, especially now that you’ve achieved a breakthrough with your negotiations. The last time we had some time for ourselves was our honeymoon, and the Adirondacks sound gorgeous and rejuvenating. And considering the accommodations it sounds like we might have, we’ll be experiencing something of what it was like to be one of the titans of the Gilded Age.”


“Hmm…It’s certainly convenient George Fontworth is already filling in as chief, so we could leave anytime, even as early as tomorrow morning.” Laurie gave him a Cheshire cat smile.


“So are we on?” Jack asked with growing enthusiasm.


“We’re on,” Laurie said.


“Okay,” Jack said enthusiastically. “I’ll give Bob a quick call back and let him know. He’s going to be pleased.”




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 7


Wednesday, July 23, 10:20 
a.m.


New York State Thruway


Catskill Mountains, New York


“We’re coming up on Exit Twenty,” Laurie said, pausing the podcast she and Jack had been listening to. They were in a bright red, four-wheel drive Grand Cherokee that they had rented for the week and which Jack had picked up that morning at the crack of dawn. The idea was that the vehicle would come in handy if they decided to do any back-road exploring in Hamilton County. At the same time it was also large enough to accommodate Jack’s bike in the back seat with its front wheel removed.


Although they had initially planned to get out of the city before rush hour traffic slowed their progress, it hadn’t been possible. George Fontworth had foiled that plan by telephoning bright and early to go over several issues at length in hopes of not having to bother Laurie for several days, so she had been caught on her phone. As a result, they hadn’t been able to get away until just before 
8:00 
a.m
. Luckily at that time the outbound city traffic hadn’t been bad except for getting onto the George Washington Bridge, and even that wasn’t that terrible. Once on the New Jersey side, they’d taken the scenic Palisades Parkway to reenter New York State and hook up with the New York State Thruway heading north.


“Are you thinking what I’m thinking?” Laurie continued.


“I imagine I am,” Jack said. “We could stop and say hello to the kids. This is the exit if we were to do it.”


“It’s tempting, but I don’t think we should. Do you?”


“I don’t,” Jack said. “Especially not to Emma’s camp. To be honest, I’m surprised we haven’t gotten any calls from them, and we should let sleeping dogs lie. I couldn’t be more pleased for her. As for JJ, he’d probably tell us we were interrupting whatever he’s got going on.”


“My thoughts exactly,” Laurie said. “By the way, I’ve been so preoccupied with getting ready and dealing with George, now that we’re underway, I realize I never asked you exactly how your friend reacted when you called him back and told him we were coming. Did he sound pleased?”


“Bob couldn’t have seemed more delighted,” Jack said. “Truly, and he said we were going to be bowled over by Essex Falls in the summer. I didn’t have the heart to admit to not being much of an outdoorsman like he apparently is. As you know, I’ve never been into fishing and certainly not hunting.”


“Me neither,” Laurie added. “But I do appreciate unspoiled scenery, and like most people, I’m a sucker for a nice waterfall and a clear, unspoiled lake.”


“Me too,” Jack said, laughing. “Mostly I’m just happy for us to get out of the hot, bustling, intense city and relax. Bob also assured me he was going to get right on arranging accommodations, and 
since he didn’t call back, I’m assuming there were no problems. He also gave me his office address and said to come directly there when we get to town.”


Both parents eyed Exit 20 as they passed. Although they recognized it was probably best not to bother their children, they missed them. Instead, Laurie restarted the podcast, and settling back, they continued their journey north.


A half hour later as they neared Albany, the New York State Thruway took almost a ninety-degree turn due west, which they followed for another twenty minutes. Finally exiting the highway, they again drove due north on progressively narrower back roads. The small towns they passed through also became steadily tinier. They were now in Hamilton County.


“We’re now entering what’s called the West Canada Lake Wilderness,” Laurie announced. She was following their progress on Google Maps.


“Aptly named,” Jack commented with a nod. The mountains had become higher, some with rocky crests, and the forests denser, and there had been longer stretches without signs of civilization. For both Jack and Laurie, who hadn’t been out of the city for years except for occasional day trips like taking the kids to camp, it seemed incredible that such dense and expansive woodlands existed just a little more than three hours by car from Manhattan. There were also lots of beautiful lakes, a few with no houses whatsoever visible on their shores.


“Finally we’re getting close,” Laurie announced after nearly another hour of driving. “In the next few minutes we should start to see the outskirts of Essex Falls.”


“It certainly is isolated,” Jack said.


Fifteen minutes later Jack and Laurie were shocked when they 
rounded a bend and abruptly entered the town. There’d been no warning. Their first impression was that it was definitely larger than they had expected, with Main Street lined with impressive, two-story Victorian Gothic Revival brick buildings with commercial spaces on the ground floors and residential apartments above. At a glance, it was apparent the town was struggling economically, as half the shops were empty. Whether the apartments above were occupied wasn’t obvious.


Mesmerized and frankly charmed by the surprising scene, they drove in silence along Main Street, which was four blocks long heading east. The street itself was wide enough to afford angled parking on both sides. At that moment only about half the spots were occupied, and mostly with black pickup trucks with small American flags on tiny poles attached to their tailgates. They saw only about a dozen or so pedestrians. In the approximate middle of the town, facing each other on either side of the street, were two large Richardsonian Romanesque stone buildings. One was the Margery C. Malone Elementary School and the other was the Bennet Library.


At each of the corners they could see down the side streets. To the north the view was into a residential area composed of matching, single-family houses, some in poor condition, a few abandoned that they guessed had been company built. To the south they could see that the town was a block away from the Roaring Fork River, which Laurie was able to name from still having Google Maps open.


“It looks a little like the town was caught in a Victorian freeze-frame,” Laurie said.


Jack nodded. Although Bob had described what had happened to Essex Falls some fifteen years previously concerning the closing of the Bennet Shoe factory, Jack hadn’t imagined it was still going 
to appear quite so obvious, nor had he been prepared for the town to be as quaint or as large or as truly isolated as it was.


By far, the most impressive aspect of the town for both Jack and Laurie was the huge, empty red-brick Bennet mill building that loomed up at the far end of Main Street where it abutted Bennet Avenue. At eight stories it was shockingly tall in comparison with the rest of the town. Attached was a clock tower almost twice as high as the main part of the building.


“Bob described the building as being in the ‘Venetian vernacular’ style,” Jack commented.


“I can understand why, looking at the clock tower,” Laurie added.


As they approached the empty factory, Jack and Laurie were transfixed by its size and a bit saddened by it being a forlorn, empty shell with some of its multipaned windows broken. The main entrance was straight ahead with the oversized double doors chained shut. To the right was a second structure of the same architectural style but only two stories tall and obviously in use with cars in its parking lot.


“That’s the old Bennet Clinic building for sure,” Jack said, nodding toward the smaller building. “It’s just as Bob described. It’s where he has his office and where we are supposed to meet up with him.”


Since there were no other cars behind them, Jack stopped in the middle of Main Street facing the old factory building. Between the mill and the clinic building they could see part of a dam with a low volume waterfall spilling over its top. Beyond the dam was an expansive reservoir ringed with tall, heavily forested mountains. It was a gorgeous scene complemented by a deep cerulean, late July sky dotted with puffy, white cumulus clouds.


“It’s breathtaking,” Laurie said. “Especially for us so accustomed 
to New York City’s cement canyons. Central Park is nice and we think of it as nature, but it can’t compete with this.”


“I can see why Bob called it a summer paradise,” Jack said.


Laurie redirected her attention to the Bennet Clinic building and then glanced down at her watch. “I have a suggestion,” she said. “It’s lunchtime, which means it might not be the best time to arrive for Bob. Besides, I’m hungry. Why don’t we go back into town. I saw at least two places where we could get a quick bite.”


“Good idea!” Jack said. He took his foot off the car’s brake and powered forward. He turned left onto Bennet Avenue, heading north for a block before turning back the way they’d come. Very quickly they’d left the commercial part of the town to enter the residential area with its plethora of small, similar, apparently company-built homes that they had caught brief glimpses of from Main Street. As they drove along they could tell that a significant portion of the houses were clearly abandoned. Of those that were occupied, they noticed many had signs either on stakes in the overgrown lawns or attached to rickety porches with the words: 
Diehard Patriots
.


“What could this ‘Diehard Patriots’ be all about?” Laurie questioned.


“No idea,” Jack said as he made a turn to head them back to Main Street. “We’ll have to ask Bob. It’s curious seeing so many. He did mention that there’s been some right-wing extremism in the local youth thanks to the lack of employment opportunities. Maybe it has something to do with that.”


“You mean it might be an organization like the Proud Boys or Oath Keepers?”


“That’s what I’m thinking, something like that.”


“That wouldn’t be so nice in ‘paradise.’ ”


“Should we try Ted’s Diner?” Jack questioned, pointing out the restaurant through the windshield.


“Why not?” Laurie answered.


Ted’s Diner turned out to be a quick visit to the past, reminding Jack and Laurie of scenes in movies depicting the previous century. It also reminded Jack of the small town in the Midwest where he grew up. The narrow restaurant was dominated by a long counter fronted by fixed stools whose tops spun around. A single row of tables lined the opposite wall. The kitchen grill, cooktop, and deep fryer were directly behind the counter and manned by an older cook whose apron was none too clean. Several female servers were dressed in matching timeworn black dresses with aprons that were marginally cleaner. The menu was spelled out in white plastic letters in a large, framed black velvet board on the wall above the grill. The word 
cheeseburger
 lacked the 
s,
 reminding Jack of an old skit on 
Saturday Night Live
.


What was most obvious to Jack and Laurie about Ted’s Diner was its popularity. It was filled with people of varying ages and sexes enjoying their lunches. Thanks to the aged, pressed metal tin ceiling and the equally aged tile floor, the sound level was almost deafening. Luckily there were two empty seats next to each other at the counter, which they were able to squeeze into. A moment later one of the women in the matching black dresses put empty glasses in front of them, which she proceeded to fill with water. She did this while carrying on a loud, animated conversation with her co-worker who was servicing one of the four-top tables behind Jack and Laurie.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 8


Wednesday, July 23, 1:50 
p.m.


Essex Falls, New York


Laurie, who was now driving, nosed into the mostly empty, generous parking area alongside the Bennet Clinic building. After their somewhat chaotic lunch at Ted’s Diner, which included the best hamburgers and French fries Jack and Laurie had ever had, they’d returned to their car and looped back to the east end of Main Street. They were eager to meet up with Dr. Bob Nielson and get on with the reason for their visit.


After going through the front door, it was easy to find Bob’s office, and they entered a simply decorated, vacant waiting room with oddly mismatched furniture. Even the reception desk was unoccupied, but the door behind it was open leading into an interior hallway.


“Hello!” Jack called down the hallway.


Almost immediately a casually dressed woman of medium height with short bobbed brunette hair appeared from a side room. 
“Dr. Stapleton?” she inquired in a welcoming tone with eyebrows raised expectantly.


“Drs. Stapleton,” Jack corrected.


“Of course! We’ve been expecting both of you. Please, come on in here! We’re dealing with a mini-emergency.”


Jack started down the hallway with Laurie close behind.


“Welcome to Essex Falls,” the woman said as they approached. “I’m Melanie Hopkins, Dr. Nielson’s nurse.”


“She’s more than that,” a voice called out from inside the room. “She’s in charge here. I’m just the worker bee.”


Melanie rolled her eyes and gestured for Jack and Laurie to enter one of the treatment rooms, which had a distinctive, period feel in furniture and cabinetry. An adolescent male was lying prone on the antique treatment table with a sterile drape placed over his head. Visible in the drape’s central opening was a small portion of shaved scalp with a half-sutured rather large laceration.


“Welcome, folks!” Bob Nielson said with great enthusiasm, raising his gloved hands in greeting. He was sitting on a mobile stool, wearing a surgical gown and face mask with a needle holder in one hand and a square of sterile gauze in the other. “Sorry about this less-than-welcoming episode, but we’ve been expecting you. We canceled all the afternoon appointments, but then my friend George Arturo and his bike had other plans. Say hello to Drs. Stapleton, George!”


“Hello,” the boy said dutifully. His voice was mumbled by his position and the drape.


Both Laurie and Jack responded in unison, saying hello back.


“I’ll only be another fifteen to twenty minutes to finish up with George,” Bob said. “Why don’t you check out my forensic setup 
while you’re waiting? It’s on this floor in the back beyond the receiving bay. As I mentioned on the phone, the one thing I have is lots of space, since I own the whole building and have yet to find a single tenant to share it with.”


“No problem,” Jack said. “Take your time. We’ll entertain ourselves.”


Jack followed Laurie back into the hallway. Melanie leaned out behind them and pointed farther down the hall. “Go down to the end, turn right, which will take you out to the main hallway. The forensic setup is in the rear part of the building beyond the freight dock.”


“Wow,” Laurie commented. “I’m impressed. This was a large clinic in its day.”


“It was for sure,” Melanie agreed. “The Bennet family was very civic minded, and this clinic is just one example. Did you notice the impressive library and elementary school buildings in the center of town?”


“We certainly did,” Laurie responded.


“The Bennets built both of those,” Melanie said. “And even before providing those generous gifts to the town, they had the foresight to create a modern Municipal Water Department and treatment plant. They did it back when they built the original dam on the Roaring Fork River to power their sewing machines.”


“That’s impressive,” Laurie said. “I certainly can understand with that kind of generosity over the years why it was so traumatic for the town when the shoe company closed its doors.”


“You have no idea. For most of the population it was like Judgment Day. Essex Falls residents had learned to take their drinking water, schools, and book borrowing for granted. Anyway, feel free to look around. Dr. Nielson won’t be long.”


“We will so don’t worry about us,” Laurie added.


It was not difficult to find where Bob changed his role from town doctor to county coroner, and both forensic pathologists were pleasantly surprised. They found themselves standing in an actual autopsy room tiled in attractive blue ceramic and equipped with a central drain. It was certainly more pleasant than the current aged autopsy room at the OCME, and they took their time wandering around. A coiled garden hose hung on the wall. In the center of the room was a battered but adequate stainless steel dissecting table with its own water source and drain to handle body fluids. A handy spring-loaded scale hung from the ceiling along with a large overhead light. Along one wall a series of glass fronted cabinets contained a reasonable collection of autopsy tools, including a Stryker saw to remove skullcaps. On the opposite wall was another cabinet with an extensive collection of specimen bottles of all sorts and sizes. On the far wall was the telltale door to a walk-in cooler.


“Well, this is going to be a hell of a lot easier than I thought,” Laurie said, glancing at what appeared to be a new pair of rib shears. She then opened one of the cabinets and handled some of the knives used to section internal organs to assess their sharpness.


“I’ll say,” Jack agreed. He looked into a good-sized adjacent changing room, which had personal protective equipment including face shields and various types of surgical gloves, including the double layered, cut-proof variety. There were also several battery powered respirators with N95 filters as well as a few lockers.


“There’s even a dual-view binocular microscope in here,” Laurie said, glancing in the neighboring room where there was the necessary equipment for creating microscopic slides from various tissue specimens.


“So, what’s the verdict, my friends?” a jolly voice suddenly 
questioned, reverberating around the tiled room. “Does it all pass muster?”


Both Jack and Laurie turned to see Bob Nielson stride into the room without his mask and gown.


“With flying colors,” Laurie answered, surprised by his physique. Considering the shape of his face, his obvious general fitness, and even his skin tone, he could easily pass for Jack’s brother. The major difference was that he was several inches taller and that his facial skin was significantly more weathered, suggesting he’d spent a lot of time outdoors in seriously inclement weather.


Without a second’s hesitation, he and Jack enveloped each other in a sustained bear hug while saying how great it was to see each other after so many years. When they disentangled, Jack gestured toward Laurie: “Please, meet Laurie Montgomery Stapleton, my lovely wife!”


“My pleasure,” Bob said as he swept Laurie up into a similar, sustained embrace. “Welcome! Welcome!” Bob repeated when he released her. “I’m so glad you two are here. Thank you so much for coming. Truly. And sorry about my being caught up in a bit of a bike accident just when you arrived. That’s what being a general practitioner in a small town is all about.”


“Not a problem,” Jack assured him. He then gestured around the room. “And, let me say this: You’ve got a truly impressive forensic setup out here in the middle of the woods. We’re both pleasantly surprised.”


“As I said on the phone, once I made the decision to assume the role of county coroner, I intended to give it my best shot. To that end, I’ve plowed the rather meager salary I get as the coroner into this ensemble. Of course, I don’t have any idea of what I’m to do 
with it when my term is over, if I don’t get re-elected. But I’m not overly worried about it, as it is what it is.”


“That could be a conundrum,” Jack agreed. “Autopsy rooms are not much good for anything other than autopsies. But it is going to make our doing the autopsy on the pest control fellow a hell of a lot easier than we anticipated.”


“I’m glad you’re pleasantly surprised,” Bob said. “So, let’s talk for just a minute about timing. Unless either of you feel differently, I thought we’d put off doing the autopsy until the morning to give you guys a chance to get acclimated here in our paradise. Does that sound to you all like an appropriate plan? There haven’t been any follow-up cases of similar poisonings, which is what I’d feared, so the urgency I felt has lessened.”


“Whatever,” Laurie said, looking at Jack and getting a nod of agreement. “This afternoon or tomorrow is fine with us. To be honest, I’m totally thrilled just to get away from the OCME. You have no idea.”


“Tomorrow morning it is,” Bob said. “The body is here in the walk-in cooler.” He pointed over Laurie’s shoulder at the insulated door. “But for now let’s get you situated.” He glanced at his watch. “Oh my gosh, it’s after two already. I guess the first order of business is to get you some lunch.”


“That’s already taken care of,” Jack said. “We took a detour into Ted’s Diner on our way into town.”


“Perfect!” Bob said. “Then let’s head back to my office and plan the rest of the day.” He started from the autopsy room, waving over his shoulder for the others to follow. “How was your drive up here?” he questioned.


“It couldn’t have been more pleasant,” Laurie remarked falling 
in behind. “Particularly the last hour or so after leaving the thruway. It’s so much more rustic than either of us expected, especially when we started getting into the mountains. I can’t tell you how nice it is to get out of the city, which neither of us have done very much over the last number of years.”


“What’s astonishing is how woodsy it is until you drive into Essex Falls itself,” Jack added from behind Laurie.


“It’s part of what makes the place so special,” Bob agreed.


Once they got into Bob’s rather spartan office, he had Laurie and Jack sit in two of the four aged straight-back chairs while he sat behind his equally aged metal desk. On it was a sleek iMac and a group of framed photos of his three children when they were youngsters and his wife. “Yes, that’s Carol,” Bob said of his wife’s pic when Laurie questioned it. “Obviously it was a few years ago. She’s looking forward to meeting you guys tonight as we have planned a barbecue this evening, if you’re willing. We’ll be having my personal favorite: double-thick loin lamb chops.”


“By all means,” Laurie said after glancing at Jack, who nodded enthusiastically.


“But first I have a confession to make,” Bob said. “On the phone I promised you that I would get the posh, old Bennet Estate for you while you are here. Unfortunately, that is not going to happen. I didn’t know at the time that the property was already being rented by our local militia group, the Diehard Patriots.”


“We saw signs for the Diehard Patriots,” Laurie remarked. “We were wondering what it was. So, it is a militia group. That’s what we suspected.”


“I’m afraid so,” Bob said with a mildly despondent shrug. “I mentioned on the phone that we’re having a bit of an issue with a small right-wing extremist group. It’s an attempt at a local version 
of the Oath Keepers or Proud Boys but not nearly as scary, as the Diehards have less than a couple of dozen members. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I’m no fan, but they stick to themselves, doing survivalist nonsense, drinking beer, and shooting their AR-15s.”


“Why would they be renting a fancy estate?” Jack questioned.


“A good question,” Bob said. “First of all because it’s surprisingly inexpensive through Airbnb. A year ago, a private equity real-estate development company bought the old Bennet Shoe factory building next door as well as a number of the associated, empty, high-end homes that are outside of town, including the Bennet family estate, for a relative pittance. The concept is to turn the empty mill building into a five-star, four-season resort, which I think has a good chance of success with what the area has to offer, although all they’ve done so far is update the homes.”


“But again, why would a fledgling militia group rent a mansion?” Laurie asked.


“I’m getting to that,” Bob said. “It’s for a rather strange reason, which to find out, I had to ask Bill Hargrove, the chief of our five-man police force, who makes it a point to know everything that’s going on in town. What he told me was that four supposedly experienced militia members from Holland, of all places, came all the way over here to Essex Falls specifically to instruct the Diehard militia in combat tactics, whatever that means. And as strange as all that sounds, it was all arranged by none other than Ethan Jameson, the pest control technician we’re going to be autopsying tomorrow morning. He and several of his close friends are the Diehard Patriot founders.”


A simultaneous, sardonic smile appeared on both Jack’s and Laurie’s faces as they exchanged a quizzical glance.


“Okay,” Laurie said in a drawn-out style as if she didn’t quite 
believe what Bob was saying. “Tell me this: How was all that arranged by Mr. Ethan Jameson all the way up here in the middle of nowhere? And why Holland?”


“A sign of the times,” Bob said. “Apparently Mr. Jameson had been spending a lot of time online in various right-wing militia-oriented social media platforms and chat rooms like VKontakte and Telegram, interacting as these people do while augmenting and fanning their prejudices and conspiracy theories. Supposedly the Dutch militia guys contacted him out of the blue on one of these chat rooms and offered their professional services to the fledging Diehard Patriots on the condition they were provided a place to stay and a means of transportation while they were here. The rest is history, but to specifically answer your question of why they are Netherlanders and not from another country, I have no idea.”


“Holland does seem like a strange place for right-wing militia people,” Jack said. He’d been there once. He remembered Amsterdam as being inordinately friendly, open, and a very welcoming, tolerant city.


“I think that all of Western Europe is seeing a surge in right-wing activities,” Bob said, “including Holland.”


“That’s probably quite true,” Laurie said. “Same here in the United States.”


“What’s the current accepted term for people from Holland?” Jack asked. “I’m confused that you called them Netherlanders.”


“For good reason,” Bob said. “They used to be called either Dutch or Hollander as I remember, but Chief Hargrove specifically used the term ‘Netherlander.’ When I questioned it, he said that’s what these militia members called themselves.”


“So Chief Hargrove spoke with them directly?” Laurie questioned.


“He did indeed,” Bob said. “I’m not surprised. He takes his job to heart, and when he heard that there were foreign—‘fa’ren,’ as he’d say—militia members in town interacting with some of the local ne’er-do-wells, he went out there and met them and even checked on their IDs. He described all four as being genuinely cooperative, respectful, and even polite, and he found their passports were all in order.”


“How long have they been here?” Jack asked.


“I was told more than a month,” Bob said. “But they keep to themselves out there at the Bennet Estate, and there hadn’t been any trouble with them whatsoever. But apparently that was about to change. According to Mr. Jameson’s live-in girlfriend, Janet Huber, whom Bill Hargrove interviewed on Monday, the day Mr. Jameson died, Mr. Jameson had been furious at the Netherlanders to the point that he was going to have all four of them kicked the hell out of the Bennet Estate that very day.”


“Did she say why?” Laurie questioned.


“She did,” Bob said. “She said he was convinced that they weren’t fulfilling their side of the bargain in that two of them, apparently the commander and his lieutenant, had failed to show up for a big training exercise the night before, and it had been a chronic problem. She said what had made Mr. Jameson particularly pissed was that the Netherlander commander was more interested in the brewery he’d put together in the Bennet barn than instructing and supervising the Diehard Patriots.”


“A brewery?” Jack questioned with a spontaneous laugh.


“I know,” Bob admitted. “It sounds a bit off the wall.”


“Do you think the Netherlanders are operating on a shoestring?” Jack further asked. “How are they feeding themselves if they have to make their own beer?”


“That’s the strange part,” Bob said. “Quite the contrary. The woman claims that Mr. Jameson said that they had all the money they needed to buy a bunch of impressive beer-making equipment, which makes me wonder why the Diehard Patriots were paying for the Bennet Estate. I don’t have any answers. Of course, the bigger question is how did Mr. Jameson manage to kill himself and whether or not it was his anger that made him careless. Supposedly, at least according to the girlfriend, he was well aware of the toxicity of the products he worked with and was a stickler about washing his clothes and showering every day after work. That’s what’s so confusing for me, especially if what she says about his habits is true. But this is why I am so appreciative of you coming up here to lend a professional hand. I know I’m probably going a bit overboard, but as an essentially untrained coroner, the last thing I want on my conscience is a rash of preventable organophosphate deaths popping up with any of Mr. Jameson’s co-workers.”


“Toxicology is going to be key,” Laurie said.


“No doubt,” Jack said.


“I do have an account with NMS Labs, which is terrific,” Bob said. “After the autopsy we can send off blood, urine, and various organ samples to them. The problem is that getting their results takes significant time. What I’m hoping is that you guys might have an idea from the autopsy itself. What do you think? Is that at all possible?”


Jack and Laurie exchanged a quick glance. “I’m sorry to say that’s probably not possible,” Laurie responded. “Death from an organophosphate, irrespective of the particular type or brand, is death from an anticholinesterase, which is what organophosphates are and which interrupt nerve function throughout the body. Grossly, there might be a variation in the degree, with some organs 
affected more than others, but that’s not going to point to any specific agent. As I said, toxicology will be key.”


“I was afraid of that,” Bob said with a fleeting expression of disappointment. He shrugged. “Well, we can only do what we can do. A least we’re trying, and regardless, it’s certainly a pleasure to see you guys.”


“If speed is an issue,” Jack said, “what we might think of doing is getting some body fluid samples down to the OCME after the autopsy rather than sending them off to NMS Labs. Our toxicology lab director can do wonders if he’s motivated, and lately he’s been motivated. Do any of the overnight delivery services operate out of Essex Falls?”


“Not directly,” Bob said. “We have to drive packages to either Glens Falls or Saratoga Springs. Or…you know what? If the OCME lab would be willing to step up and help, we could arrange for a local to drive samples all the way down to New York and deliver them directly.”


“If speed is as important to you as you say, that would be the best solution,” Jack said. “I can call Dr. DeVries and get him fired up to expect them. If I push him a little, we can have some answers in days, not weeks.”


“Then that’s what we will do for sure,” Bob said.


“Okay, with that decided, let’s revisit the issue about where we are going to stay,” Laurie said. “We’re certainly not going to share an estate—no matter how posh—with a group of Dutch right-wing militia fanatics.”


“Heaven forbid!” Bob agreed with a smile. “But let me assure you, all is not lost. I’ve arranged for you to stay at another great spot. About twenty years after Ambrose Bennet, who founded the shoe company, built his palatial home, he built a similar, slightly smaller 
version in the same style for his firstborn son, Hiram, on the opposite side of the private lake he’d built his house facing. Sadly, it only has ten bedrooms rather than twelve.”


“Only ten bedrooms?” Laurie questioned with mock concern. “I don’t know whether that’s going to work out.”


All three people laughed.


“It also doesn’t have a barn,” Bob continued, “so you won’t be able to set up your own brewery, so take that off your to-do list.”


Everyone laughed again.


“But it has a pool, which the main house lacks,” Bob said. “When I took the time to run over there and check it out, I think it is better than the main house in a number of respects. You are going to love it.”


“Wonderful!” Laurie said as she started to rise up from her chair. The idea of getting situated appealed to her.


“Just a second!” Bob said, motioning his guests to stay seated. “I already mentioned about the barbecue tonight, and I hope you don’t mind that I’ve taken the liberty to invite Bill Hargrove, the chief of police, and his wife to join us. He’s particularly eager to meet you guys.”


“That’s fine,” Laurie said with a shrug. Jack nodded as well.


“As for activities, I wanted to let you know we have some decent tennis and pickleball courts in Bennet Park where there is also a basketball court. Mountain biking is big here in Essex Falls with some challenging trails, and there’s rentals available.”


“I brought my road bike,” Jack said. “It’s in the car.”


“Terrific,” Bob said. “For road biking, there are several local ten-to-twelve-mile loops that I can suggest. Laurie, there’s a very active Pilates group in town that uses the elementary school gym. If you’re interested, Carol is an eager participant and more than willing to 
introduce you to the others. And you, Jack! I hope you brought your basketball high-tops!”


“Of course I did!”


“As I mentioned on the phone, we have a very active pickup basketball group here in town. Are you interested in me setting up a game for later this afternoon?”


Jack glanced at Laurie.


“Why are you looking at me?” Laurie questioned. “Play if you want to play. Just don’t leave me without a car. I might look into the Pilates. Is it a daily activity, Bob?”


“I believe so.”


“Of course I wouldn’t leave you carless,” Jack said. “I’ll bike into town. How far away is the Hiram House?”


“About four miles,” Bob said.


“A piece of cake,” Jack said. “Sure, I’ll be happy to play.”


“I thought that would be the case,” Bob said, “To be truthful, I took the liberty of already telling a number of people to be at Bennet Park at five 
p.m
. I’m sure there’ll be a decent turnout. By the way, one of the better players who will be there for certain is named JD. Since he was a close friend of Ethan Jameson’s, he would be able to answer any general questions you might have about his friend’s habits if that might be helpful for tomorrow morning’s autopsy. Although JD’s not the most career-minded twentysomething, he’s quite personable. He also happens to be one of the founders of the Diehard Patriots along with the late Ethan Jameson, which is why over the last month or so he’s often brought one of the Netherlander militia fellows named Alexei to our pickup games. Alexei’s not a bad player, although aggressive and occasionally a little hot under the collar. He might even be there this afternoon if you are interested in learning more about the mysterious Netherlanders, 
provided you can get him to talk. I never could, and I tried. He’s not a particularly personable individual.”


“I can’t imagine why I would be interested,” Jack said with a short, ironic laugh. “Right-wing militias are not one of my personal schticks.”


“Nor mine,” Bob said with a similar chuckle. “On a final note: I drew a map of the area with the location of the Hiram House along with some of the more popular local hiking trails and mountain bike routes.” He handed one to Laurie and a copy to Jack. “I also listed and located some stores you might find handy, like the drugstore and liquor shop. There’s also a surprisingly good grocery store here in town. Unfortunately, it’s on the small side. If you prefer a supermarket, you have to drive the ten miles to Indian River. We lost our supermarket when the Bennet factory closed. Anyway, it’s all on the map.”


“That’s very thoughtful,” Laurie commented after glancing at the map and the list.


“Okay,” Bob said getting to his feet. “If you follow me, I’ll drive you out to the Hiram House.”


“Let’s do it,” Jack said following suit.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 9


Wednesday, July 23, 2:00 
p.m
.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


Alexei Ivanov disconnected the call he’d been on with JD Daniels and experienced a sudden flash of anger. He’d been aware since he was a child of five, some twenty years previously, that he tended to be what his mother described as “volatile,” and the stress and isolation of being in Essex Falls was wearing on him, as were the personalities of the three people he’d been essentially imprisoned with for almost six weeks. His general impatience and barely suppressed rage had been made worse because Sunday night—while trying to stay alive shepherding seventeen imbecilic, uneducated, American males, all drinking beer and shooting AR-15 rifles in the dark—he’d believed that he’d be on his way back to his beloved Russia Monday afternoon. Being informed that he’d have to do yet another prion harvest instead had been a devastating blow.


Although the anger Alexei felt from JD’s call came from being stuck in godforsaken Essex Falls without even a definitive idea 
when they were going to leave, the rush of concern came from something else entirely. JD had invited Alexei to play basketball, an opportunity which Alexei truly appreciated as it was the sole extracurricular activity he’d been allowed by the commander under the very specific rules to limit their engagement.


The usual biweekly basketball had been a psychological lifesaving release for him from the boredom of being otherwise confined to the Bennet Estate. The worry, of course, from Viktor and Nikolai’s position was that it could lead to someone questioning the group’s origin, which would raise some eyebrows.


With exasperation, Alexei looked over at Viktor and then at Dmitry Volkov and finally at Nikolai Petrov, the lieutenant. All were in the Bennet barn toiling away in their makeshift biomolecular laboratory, setting up a final prion harvest to cap off their already totally successful proof-of-concept trial of theta prion as a consummate bioweapon. Although they all had been busy, it was Alexei who’d done the lion’s share of the real work since he was the microbiological technician.


Although Viktor and Nikolai did indeed make the prion gene vector initially, from that point on it was all Alexei’s work. First he’d used the vector to transform the yeast he and Dmitry had gotten in Albany, then he separated out the transformed yeast using the appropriate antibiotic, and finally he charged up the commercial fermenter, which they were using as a bioreactor, with the transformed yeast along with the required amounts of nutrients plus galactose necessary to turn on the inserted gene. It was now up to the yeast to reproduce itself and then, thanks to recombinant technology, produce the theta prion protein. How long it was going to take was up to the specific culture of yeast cells that had been transformed 
by gene vector and their specific bio-characteristics. At that point there was little else to be done but monitor and control the temperature, pH, and carbon dioxide concentration and keep all three within certain narrow limits to let the yeast cells do their thing, which they were generally very capable of doing.


Racing around Alexei’s mind and raising his blood pressure was what and how much to tell the others about what JD had innocently mentioned during his call. Following the usual details involving the time and location for the afternoon basketball, JD had casually mentioned that the organizing doctor, who Alexei knew as Dr. Bob, was particularly interested in a decent turnout of good players because another doctor friend of his from New York who was a well-known forensic pathologist was in town and was a good player himself. “I don’t know what the hell a forensic pathologist is,” JD had said, “but I’m guessing Dr. Bob wants to impress the guy.”


As a microbiological technician who’d spent some time in hospitals earlier in his career, Alexei knew all too well what a forensic pathologist was, and what immediately reverberated around inside his head was the disturbing chance this visiting doctor’s arrival might possibly have something to do with Ethan Jameson’s death. There hadn’t been any fallout from Alexei using the Novichok Monday morning as Viktor had originally feared, but was that about to change? The possibility had Alexei’s heart racing, making him wonder if he might be forced to use the Novichok again to give the group time to get out of the country.


“What the hell are you thinking about?” Viktor questioned with concern, yanking Alexei out of his momentary trance to find the commander intently staring at him. “What’s wrong? Is something amiss with the fermenter?” Viktor shifted his gaze from Alexei to 
the apparatus’s gauges while giving it several pats with an open palm. It was an expensive but well-made fermenter costing more than six thousand US dollars.


“No, there’s nothing wrong!” Alexei repeated nervously. “The fermenter’s fine.”


“That’s a relief! But I have to confess; you had me worried there for a moment. You looked momentarily terrified. To be honest, you are still a little pale. Who were you talking with? JD?” From their first arrival in Essex Falls, Alexei had been the main contact between Ethan Jameson, John Daniels, and the Diehard Patriots.


“Yes, it was JD,” Alexei said, debating what to say to Viktor and what not say. On Monday both Viktor and Nikolai had seriously berated him for using the Novichok without their authorization, reminding him over and over it had been brought only for extreme emergencies because if it was recognized by the US authorities it could cause a firestorm by implicating Russian involvement.


For the rest of the day, the self-styled Netherlanders had all nervously waited to see if there was to be any fallout, preparing to leave on a moment’s notice if there was. Luckily there hadn’t been, and they had all been extremely relieved when JD finally called Alexei later that afternoon to inform him that the death had occurred and pesticide self-poisoning was considered the likely cause, which was what Alexei had suspected would be the case. Alexei had known Ethan regularly used organophosphate pesticides similar to Novichok but a thousand times less potent.


“Did he say anything additional about Ethan Jameson’s death?” Viktor asked.


“Not a thing!” Alexei said. “He was calling to invite me to play basketball this afternoon.” Alexei silently and rapidly debated whether to reveal that a forensic pathologist was visiting the local 
doctor. Quickly he decided to stay mum, thinking he’d play basketball and learn what he could about whether there was need to worry. On top of that, with as wound up as he was, a good game of basketball would be enormously therapeutic, mentally and physically, and he didn’t want to deny himself.


“How did you respond?” Viktor asked.


“I said I’d play.”


“Under the circumstances I don’t know if that is a wise idea,” Viktor said. Without another word to Alexei, he turned around and called out to get Nikolai’s attention. Nikolai was busy preparing the fast protein liquid chromatography equipment to purify the theta prion protein in anticipation of a successful run with the yeast in the fermenter. He looked up when he heard his name, and Viktor waved him over.


Viktor quickly explained the situation to Nikolai and then added: “What’re your thoughts on whether Alexei should play or not?”


For a few moments of concentrated thought, Nikolai stared so intently at Alexei that Alexei was forced to avert his eyes. Things were not looking good.


“I can make an argument both ways,” Nikolai said finally. “On the positive side it would be critical to know sooner rather than later if there was even the slightest rumor going around suggestive that Novichok had been involved in Ethan’s death.”


“My thoughts exactly!” Alexei said jumping into the conversation. “It’s the main reason I want to play. The players are a varied group of locals, and between them, they know everything that’s going on in this shithole town. If there is the slightest talk of Novichok being involved, at least one of them would know about it. And, even under normal circumstances, I never say much when I play. I just listen. If there is any suspicious talk, I’ll hear it.”


There was a pause as the three people alternately looked at one another.


“All right,” Viktor finally said with a dismissive wave of his hand. “Play! But keep your ears open! And to be on the safe side, we’ll keep the truck with us. We’ll drop you off and then pick you up when you text you’re ready.”


“That’s fine with me,” Alexei said. Although he preferred to drive himself, he was relieved to get permission to go into town and get in the game.


“Now let’s talk about the fermenter,” Nikolai said. “This is our final run, so why don’t use up all the amino acids we have. Wouldn’t that increase both the speed of protein synthesis and ultimately the output, even if only marginally?”


“Just the opposite,” Alexei said. “Yeast function best within very specific limits. Adding nutrients beyond the recommended amounts actually depresses their reproduction and ultimately protein synthesis almost as much as not enough.”


“Really?” Nikolai questioned. “That seems contrary to common sense.”


“But he’s correct,” Viktor said.


“All right, fine by me,” Nikolai said with a shrug.


Both Viktor and Nikolai returned to their previous activities, leaving Alexei suddenly becalmed. Out of reflex he looked at the gauges on the fermenter. All was in order, and suddenly he had absolutely nothing to do. He checked the time. There were more than two and a half hours before basketball, and he didn’t know what to do with himself. The interaction with Viktor and Nikolai irritated him as he detested their condescension. It was always so obvious that they looked down upon him because they had PhDs while his education had been technical. He’d never had the option of 
glorified academia, having grown up in a relatively small town called Staraya Russa. Viktor and Nikolai, on the other hand, had been raised in cosmopolitan Moscow and Saint Petersburg respectively and had attended vaunted secondary schools and the best graduate schools.


With that irritating thought reverberating in Alexei’s mind, the coincidence of Staraya Russa being about the same distance away from Moscow as Essex Falls was from New York City suddenly occurred to him. What made that idea so poignant was that in contrast to Essex Falls being a cultural desert and a backwoods wasteland, Staraya Russa had a rich, documented history of several thousand years including a deep connection to Russian Orthodoxy with its own cathedral. Although Alexei was not religious himself, in sharp contrast to his parents, he respected religion for the rich contribution it added to Russian culture, and such thoughts just added to his homesickness, which aggravated his general boredom.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 10


Wednesday, July 23, 2:20 
p.m.


Hiram House


Hamilton County, New York


“Whoa!” Jack exclaimed, staring through the rental car’s windshield at the house that had loomed into view after the final turn in a long, serpentine driveway. He never expected the home would be so uniquely imposing and monumental. It was all black including its multi-gabled, steep slate roof. What was most impressive was a profusion of towers capped with either crenellated parapets or sharply pointed conical roofs. Almost as dramatic was the glut of intricate gingerbread architectural details including finials, spires, and bargeboard. Taken aback, he slowed the car’s forward motion to a crawl to appreciate the scene.


After following Bob’s Toyota for about ten minutes on the road leading to the neighboring town of Indian River, they’d turned off onto an unmarked, narrow driveway that cut through tall, junglelike forest. The canopy on either side was so dense it precluded sunlight, causing the floor to be completely covered with ferns and moss. 
“Could this really be where we are supposed to be staying?” Jack said, finding his voice.


“It must be,” Laurie said. She was equally taken aback while eyeing the home sited in the middle of an acre-sized lawn on the shore of a pristine lake that appeared to be about a half mile in diameter. Ahead, Bob was already climbing out of his parked car. Recovering from his initial awe, Jack accelerated forward and pulled alongside. Laurie lowered her window to allow Bob to lean into the Cherokee, resting on his elbows.


“Well, what’s the initial verdict?” Bob beamed. He was obviously more than confident they would be impressed, which they were.


“I don’t think I’ve ever seen anything quite like it,” Jack said. “It’s certainly unexpected and impressive. Staying here is going to be a unique experience. I can assure you that there’s not too many houses like this in the Midwest where I grew up.”


“There’s not too many like it left anyplace,” Bob said confidently. “You might find a few in Maine if you look hard. If you are interested in architectural details, it’s called Victorian Gothic Revival, which was quite popular in the late 1800s. And since it was just recently renovated, it’s in fantastic shape.”


“It looks like the set for a Halloween movie,” Laurie said. “Are those stained-glass windows on either side of the front door?”


“They are indeed,” Bob said. “Tiffany stained glass to be specific. And there’s more inside, as well as leaded glass panels, particularly in the formal dining room. But come on! As you can probably guess, it’s the interior that is the most impressive.” He straightened up and opened Laurie’s door.


As they walked to the front steps leading up to the elaborate covered porch which surrounded the entire house, they could appreciate more of the grounds, which included a partially concealed, 
hard-surfaced tennis court. As they mounted the steps, they noticed that the Gothic-arched, grand double doors were surrounded by intricate stone carvings as well as Tiffany stained-glass panels.


“My goodness,” Jack commented. “It must have taken years to build this place, especially way up here in the woods.”


“I understand that they brought a number of artisans all the way from Italy,” Bob responded. “And they lived here on-site during the years of construction.”


For Jack and Laurie, the interior, with its remarkably tall ceilings and wildly decorative, high-gloss, darkly stained mahogany crown moldings, was even more striking than the arresting exterior. All the common rooms had generous-sized black and gold marble fireplaces and period Victorian furnishings in similarly dark woods. The drapes and all the upholstery were made of velvet.


Of particular charm was the oversized living room with not one but two marble fireplaces facing each other on either end of the room. Between the two was an exceptionally large central bay window with sidelights that allowed an enormous amount of bright sunlight to flood into the room. The view was directly out over the lake with the tallest Adirondack Mountains in the distance. Both Jack and Laurie stopped to stare. The scene was momentarily mesmerizing for two city-folk.


“This truly is gorgeous,” Jack admitted.


“I told you so,” Bob said.


“I only see one other house,” Laurie said. “And from here it looks a lot like this one.”


“It looks a lot like this house even up close, just a bit larger if you can believe it,” Bob said. “That’s the main house on the Bennet Estate, built by Ambrose Bennet for himself and his family. Any 
mistakes he thought he might have made in that one, he rectified in this one that he built for his son, such as fully taking advantage of the views of the lake. The living room in the original house doesn’t even face the lake but rather the formal garden. Nor does the main house have a bow window like this, and this house has two. This one and one in the library.


“As for the lake, it’s now owned by the private equity company that bought the Bennet factory building in town and both these residences. That’s why there are no other houses. That will probably change in the future as the resort project progresses.”


“Well, isn’t this cozy,” Jack said with a laugh. “Seems that we’ll be sharing this lake with a group of Dutch far right-wing militia members, for whatever that’s worth.”


“I suppose you’re right,” Bob said with a chuckle of his own. “But don’t count on a lot of friendly interaction. I doubt you’ll be seeing much of them.”


“How come?”


“Why, I don’t know,” Bob said. “Bill Hargrove told me that they stick to themselves, and it’s entirely true. Apparently, they just hang out inside the house, which is certainly big enough, and in the barn. Other than the fellow that plays basketball with us on occasion, I rarely see any of them in town, and when I do, they are always together visiting the Huber Convenience Store or the Daniels Hardware. They must do their main food shopping in Indian River.”


“You’d think they’d go a little stir-crazy despite the size of the house,” Laurie suggested.


“One would think so,” Bob agreed. “But we’ll worry about the Netherlanders tomorrow.” He laughed. “Now, let’s move on to the kitchen, which is rather unique to say the least.” He waved for them to follow 
as he led the way out of the living room and through the stately front hall, passing en route the grand staircase that led up to the second floor.


“Oh, wow,” Laurie said when she saw that the kitchen was as large as the living room. One end had been totally renovated with state-of-the-art kitchen appliances and even a new island with a modern sink, cooktop, and barstools. But more impressive to her was the original woodburning stove that had been left in place at the other end of the room as well as a large soapstone sink and countertops that ran all along one wall. In keeping with the old fixtures, the floor was wide-planked oak.


Bob went directly to the refrigerator, opened the door, and pointed to fruit and other basics like eggs, bacon, milk, butter, and cheese that he’d gotten for them. There was also a package of English muffins.


“My goodness, you’ve really gone overboard for us,” Laurie commented.


“It’s the least I could do,” Bob said. “I’m truly appreciative that you guys were willing to come up here to lend a hand to a struggling county coroner.”


“We’re happy to help if we can,” Laurie said. “But you needn’t feel so beholden. Getting away from the OCME and its political problems for a few days is a real treat for me. We are grateful to you.”


“Hear, hear,” Jack said in full agreement.


“I couldn’t be more pleased,” Bob said with a broad smile. “Meanwhile, let me point out what might be the pièce de résistance of the property. Then I’ll leave you alone to get settled. Follow me!” Again waving over his shoulder, he led them first through a kind of mudroom/storeroom back out onto the covered porch that ringed the dwelling. After rounding the corner of the building, Jack and 
Laurie immediately saw what Bob had to have been referring to, namely a large swimming pool, a connected Jacuzzi, a pool house, a sizable barbecue, and a firepit, all partially hidden behind newly planted birch trees. As the group reached the expanded section of the covered porch facing the lake, with its collection of period wicker furniture, Bob stopped to let his visitors take in the scene. The view of the lake was even more impressive than it had been from inside the living room. From where they were now standing they could see a dock that extended a short distance out into the lake. On it was a red canoe turned on its side and several chairs.


“Is the lake swimmable?” Jack asked.


“Of course,” Bob said. “Why do you ask?”


“I don’t know,” Jack admitted. “The only lake I’m accustomed to seeing is the one in Central Park, which I’d never swim in.”


“It’s perfectly swimmable although it gets deep quickly and if you dive down more than six feet or so, it will feel cold. I live on a very similar lake, about a mile from here, along with ten other families including my parents. It’s where I grew up. During this time of year, I swim just about every day, rain or shine.”


“If the lake is swimmable, why did they put in a swimming pool?” Laurie asked.


“I don’t know, to be honest,” Bob said. “My guess is that this house might be for the benefit of the private equity higher-ups who are funding the resort to use in the future. But it’s just a guess.”


“Are the barbecue and the firepit operational?” Jack asked.


“Absolutely,” Bob responded.


“Look!” Laurie suddenly said, interrupting while pointing out across the lake. “Our militia neighbors are using the lake right at this moment. I guess they aren’t quite the stick-in-the-muds they’re believed to be.”


“You’re right,” Bob said, shielding his eyes against the glare of the sun. “At least a couple of them. It’s good to know they are human and maybe enjoying the place more than I thought.”


“It appears as though their dock has a diving board,” Jack added. “Too bad there’s not one here.” He, too, was shielding his eyes, and thought he could appreciate that at least one person was using a springboard to good advantage. Springboard diving was something Jack had done a lot of as a teenager at their family summer home. He had been good at it and liked it a lot. He’d not tried it for years but certainly would have done so if there had been one there at the Hiram House, and said so.


“There is a diving board on their dock,” Bob said. “I saw it when they had an open house for the town when the renovation was complete. But don’t be jealous! They have no swimming pool, no barbecue, no firepit, no beautiful view from the living room. You guys are getting the better deal, believe me! The only disadvantage here is that you have to make do with only ten bedrooms rather than a full dozen.”


Laurie laughed.


“You can use a different one each night,” Bob humorously suggested.


“Oh, right!” Laurie scoffed.


“Well, I’ll leave you guys to settle in and make yourselves at home. Jack, I’ll see you in Bennet Park around five. And, Laurie, I’ll see you at my home at seven thirty or thereabouts. Are we all good?”


“We’re good,” Jack and Laurie agreed simultaneously. They both waved after Bob gave Jack another brief welcoming hug and then headed back around the covered porch. Just before he disappeared he waved back at them.


Suddenly alone, Jack and Laurie looked at each other with 
disbelieving smiles on their faces. “This all seems too good to be real,” she said, gesturing out toward the lake and then toward the swimming pool area.


“I know what you mean,” Jack said. “It’s so peaceful. But as nice as it is now, I have trouble imagining what it is like midwinter, especially in a snowstorm when it gets dark at four o’clock in the afternoon.”


“Yikes,” Laurie said. “It must be dreadful.”


“Dismissing that grim thought, let’s head upstairs and check out the bedrooms and pick one. Then I’ll bring in our bags.”


“Good idea!” Laurie said. “But wait a second. I have a thought. Seeing all these amenities and this huge house, what about inviting Warren and his new girlfriend to come up here and enjoy it with us. To be honest, I’m going to feel a little odd for just you and me to be rattling around in this huge, storybook house by ourselves. I know we haven’t yet met this new lady friend, but I sincerely doubt Warren would hook up with anyone who wasn’t interesting and friendly. Besides, with all this room, it wouldn’t matter anyway.”


“What a great idea,” Jack said with an enthusiastic nod. “I can even tell him to bring his basketball kicks. What do you think? Should I try to call him now?”


“Why not?” Laurie questioned.


Jack checked the time. It was going on three in the afternoon. Knowing Warren was on vacation, he thought there was a fifty-fifty chance he could be already out on the basketball court organizing a pickup game, but he figured he’d try anyway. He was pleasantly surprised when Warren picked up before the second ring. Unsurprisingly, he was on his way to the playground at that very moment. After Jack reminded him about him and Laurie coming up to the Adirondacks the previous evening, he went on to describe the town 
and their surprisingly swanky and spacious accommodations. “All of which leads me to make you an offer,” Jack continued. “And to be honest, it was Laurie’s idea. Since you’re conveniently on vacation, why don’t you and your new girlfriend jump in your car tomorrow morning and drive up here to Essex Falls and hang out with us for a few days. What’s her name again?”


“Jada Thomas.”


“Right! Jada! How could I forget. Except for having to do a single autopsy tomorrow morning, Laurie and I are here to relax and enjoy ourselves. The area is supposedly full of waterfalls and is beautiful in a rustic way, and this house as I said is huge with ten bedrooms plus a pool, a barbecue, and a private lake. And to cap it off, there’s also going to be some pickup basketball, which my old medical school classmate says is reasonably competitive. I’ll be playing this afternoon, so I’ll be able to tell you from experience later on today or this evening. What do you say? Are you at all interested?”


“Knowing you, I’m thinking I better come just to keep you out of trouble,” Warren said.


Jack laughed as he knew there was a bit of truth to Warren’s comment. More than once, Warren had indeed come to Jack’s aid or even rescue, especially one time Jack had been literally kidnapped from New York City and taken with ill intent up to the Catskill Mountains. “I can guarantee I’m not going to be getting into any trouble. It’s hard to believe how isolated this place is despite it being less than four hours’ drive from Manhattan.”


“I’m tempted,” Warren admitted. “To tell you the truth, I’m still fired up about that trip you invited me on to West Africa although talk about finding trouble, you didn’t do so bad then, either. Occasionally trouble seems to be your middle name, bro.”


“This is hardly Africa,” Jack said defensively. “If anything, it’s 
too peaceful here. And I think you and Jada will truly enjoy yourselves, plus we’re eager to meet her, and this house is really a trip if you know what I’m saying. I’ve never seen anything like it.”


“I get it,” Warren said. “Fine, I’ll ask her tonight if she’s okay with it. I think she will be because I’ve gotten the feeling she’s the adventuresome type and happens to be on vacation as well. So, I imagine we’ll come, provided we can bring some New York steaks to fire up on that BBQ you described.”


“Of course you can bring New York steaks! That would be terrific. Bring whatever else you want.”


As Jack was terminating the call, Laurie flashed him a thumbs-up. She’d heard the whole exchange. “Good job. You handled that well,” she said. “I think we’ll be seeing Warren and meeting Jada. Now, let’s go up and pick a bedroom.” She then playfully tousled Jack’s hair and then evaded his attempt to do the same while heading for the door into the house.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 11


Wednesday, July 23, 5:05 
p.m.


Essex Falls, New York


Alexei looked over at Dmitry, who was piloting the Dodge Ram the Diehard Patriots had provided them. Although all three of his compatriots were driving him stir-crazy, he liked Dmitry a hell of a lot more than he liked Viktor and Nikolai because Dmitry never acted with condescension even though he, too, had done his final medical engineering training in Moscow.


“Where do you want me to drop you off and pick you up?” Dmitry asked as they entered the southern end of Main Street. The town was comparatively busy at that hour with a number of cars, trucks, and pedestrians.


“In front of the school is fine,” Alexei said. Still looking over at Dmitry, he suddenly recognized and, more important, appreciated that not only did he like Dmitry better than the others but just how much his presence had helped make the burden of their Essex Falls isolation easier to bear. It had been just the two of them who’d made the maddeningly long and boring trips to Albany to obtain all 
the equipment for their makeshift molecular biological laboratory, whose creation mostly fell to Dmitry, as well as all the trips back and forth to Saratoga Springs or Glens Falls to access Bitcoin ATMs. And even more demanding, he and Dmitry had shouldered most of the burden of supervising the ridiculous Diehard Patriots.


With such concentrated time together, Alexei had been surprised to learn just how much he and Dmitry shared intellectually in the course of their development, particularly in their mid to late teens when they both became progressively fearful of foreign influences threatening the cultural and ethnic purity of Russia. Both had spent considerable online time in various far-right chat rooms, which had led both to becoming lifelong members of various far-right militia movements. Alexei had even been mildly surprised to learn that quite a few years ago, Dmitry had been arrested and imprisoned for a few months, charged with incitement of violence for his association with his far-right militia, which was planning an attack against some migrant workers.


“Is this good?” Dmitry questioned as he angled into an empty parking slot in front of the elementary school and pulled to a stop.


“Perfect,” Alexei said as he opened the truck’s door. “Thanks for the ride, even though I would have preferred to drive myself.”


“Yes, I know, but what can I say? We have a paranoid commander.”


“You’ve got that right.”


“Text me when you’re through playing, and I’ll pick you up right here.”


“Of course. I’ll even try to give you a little warning, so I won’t have to stand around waiting.”


“Good idea,” Dmitry said. “Enjoy yourself, but keep your ears open for any talk whatsoever about Novichok.”


“Agreed,” Alexei said. He slid out of the truck’s cab and slammed the door. After a half-salute half-wave to Dmitry, he set out following the walkway that bordered the western façade of the stone school. In bad weather the basketball group played in the school’s small indoor gym, but in good weather, which it had been recently, they used the outdoor court in Bennet Park.


The park behind the school was generously sized and included tennis facilities as well as the basketball court in addition to the usual swings and sandbox. The best part was that the back of the park bordered the Roaring Fork River. A close second was the well-tended flower beds and a generous number of shade trees. As usual at that time of the day, most of the park’s facilities were being enthusiastically used.


As soon as the basketball court came into view, Alexei could see that a half-court pickup game of three-on-three was already in progress at one end. At the opposite basket, JD was shooting warm-up shots by himself. Glancing at the ongoing game, Alexei immediately recognized six of the players: Dr. Bob; Peter Langley, an attorney; George Freeman, an insurance broker; Martin Gibson, an auto mechanic; John Elliott, a plumber; and Chris Nebolsine. Alexei had never learned what Chris did for a living as he was a reticent sort of person, like Alexei himself, and usually answered questions with single syllables. More important, Chris didn’t seem to care what was going on in the town, so Alexei had not pressed the issue, believing there wasn’t much of significance to learn from the man.


Pausing for a moment in the shade of the rather immense oak tree within a small copse of evergreens about its base, Alexei watched the seventh player, whom he assumed was the friend of Dr. Bob’s, the worrisome forensic pathologist. Within just a few 
seconds, it was apparent the man was an accomplished team player with an outgoing personality who appeared to be in excellent physical condition. Alexei could hear him and Dr. Bob exchanging friendly taunts as they were playing on opposite teams and guarding each other. As for age, Alexei thought he was close to Dr. Bob’s, which he estimated to be a bit older than Viktor’s mid-forties, which from his late twenties viewpoint was reasonably old.


Leaving the shade of the oak tree, Alexei proceeded to join JD warming up by what Alexei had learned was called “shooting baskets.” During the nine times Alexei had played basketball with this group of men, he’d manage to learn by trial and error the expected behavior and manner of play, which differed significantly from that in Russia.


After a friendly hello, Alexei positioned himself under the basket to “feed” JD by rebounding the ball and passing it to him, so he could take a series of shots. If JD were to continue to make the basket, Alexei would continue to feed him the ball. But that didn’t happen. Although JD was clearly an accomplished player, he didn’t concentrate or even care, which was how he seemed to approach life in general, and he rather quickly missed a shot. At that point they changed places.


“I’m so sorry about your friend Ethan,” Alexei said, to broach the issue even though he rarely said much to anyone and almost never initiated conversation.


“Yeah, it was one of those things,” JD said in his normal, vague, disinterested fashion.


“Have you heard any more information?”


“Nope.”


“What about this doctor friend of Dr. Bob’s?”


“What about him?”


“Does his visit have anything to do with Ethan’s passing?” For the seconds that followed, Alexei held his breath.


Instead of answering immediately, JD appeared to be pondering the question or suffering a petit mal seizure while holding on to the ball. He’d grabbed it after it dropped down through the net. Alexei had been making shot after shot.


Finally, as if awakening, JD passed the ball back out to Alexei, who’d moved a few steps to the side, which was expected behavior as Alexei had learned. JD then shrugged and said: “Maybe it’s possible, but I wouldn’t know and couldn’t care less. Why do you ask?”


“Just curious,” Alexei said as vaguely as possible. He felt his general irritation magnify as he struggled to have even the simplest, informative conversation with this likeable simpleton. Like all the Diehard Patriots, JD seemed to Alexei to be devoid of motivation, and he was convinced that Western culture fostered this kind of physical and intellectual laziness. Over the course of the past five-plus weeks, Alexei had to spend more time than he would have liked with JD along with Ethan Jameson and another equally as uninspiring individual named Nate Morrison. The three of them were the Diehard Patriots founders.


What Alexei had come to learn from Ethan about JD made him even more disgusted with Western culture than he’d already been. Apparently, JD had been a star basketball player at the regional secondary school, which made him popular and had promised him a college education. Unfortunately, that promising scenario was eliminated by a knee injury, which took two years to heal. But instead of rising to the challenge and taking advantage of what was available to him but which required a bit of mental effort and commitment, JD fell in with the wrong crowd and ended up in prison, 
where he became radicalized. When he got out, all he did was work intermittently at his family hardware store for enough money to live on and participate in the Diehard Patriots as an escape valve for his grievances.


At that moment another frequent player named Pete Ross showed up and joined the warm-up. Pete was a young pharmacist working at the local drugstore. He was also the best basketball player in the town. At six foot eight he towered over most everyone else. Only Dr. Bob came close, but he was five inches shorter. In addition, Pete had played for Duke University, which even Alexei knew was a collegiate basketball powerhouse.


Since there were only nine players, it meant that full court five-on-five was out of the question. Instead, they would be sticking to three-on-three half-court games because four-on-four was too few for full court and too crowded for half court. So at any given time, three people would have to wait their turn. Since the winning team stayed on the court, both Alexei and JD were pleased to have been teamed up by chance with Pete since it promised that they would continue playing until the whole group generally called it quits around six thirty to get on with their evening plans.


Alexei was particularly contented with his teammates. Not only would he get the maximum playtime, there’d also be less opportunity for people to engage in conversation with him, which was always worrisome, mainly because he was hardly fluent in Dutch. Although Alexei had a reasonable backstory of his fictious life in Holland created for him by the Russian FSB and dutifully committed to memory, he was still always fearful of being forced into a real conversation with an American who happened to know Amsterdam well or, worse yet, happened to speak Dutch, supposedly Alexei’s mother language.


Confirming his expectations, once Pete, JD, and Alexei got into the game, they did not lose. They stayed on the court until about six thirty rolled around and play stopped completely.


“Thank you, everybody,” Dr. Bob called out from the sidelines at the end of the final game, during which he’d had to sit out. “Great workout! And for those that are interested and available, Dr. Stapleton and I will be here tomorrow at the same time for anyone and everyone who’d like to play again.”


“Yes, thank you all for including me,” Jack called out from the court. “And my name is Jack, not Dr. Stapleton.” He’d been guarding Pete in the final game and had been doing a reasonably good job, as he was obviously in great shape and by that time Pete was clearly winded.


For a few moments, Alexei held back as people prepared to leave. Usually, he was the first to depart, but on this occasion, he was eager to have a brief, passing chat with Jack if possible, but he certainly didn’t want to be caught in a real conversation with him or anyone else. When Jack went over to interact with Dr. Bob, Alexei took the opportunity to pull out his phone and send a quick text to Dmitry to come get him. Just when he was repocketing the phone, he saw Jack head toward a red road bike leaning against a short run of bleachers.


Thinking this was his chance, Alexei hurried over to arrive the moment Jack had mounted and was about to peddle away.


“Excuse me, Jack!” Alexei began. They had been introduced by JD before the first game they’d had on opposing teams. “May I ask you a quick question? I don’t have much time because my ride is coming to pick me up.”


“Certainly,” Jack said. He let go of his handlebars and straightened up but remained astride his Trek.


“JD told me you are a forensic pathologist. I’m impressed on multiple levels, including your basketball skills. How is it you are in such obviously good shape for someone as old as yourself?”


Jack laughed. He was obviously flattered, which was the point. “I’m lucky enough to play quite a bit of pickup basketball in New York. One of the benefits of being a forensic pathologist is that we have long but predictable hours.”


“I see,” Alexei said. “I never thought of that, but I get it. No emergencies.”


“Correct,” Jack said. “Let me ask you a question. Not everyone is familiar with the specialty. How is it that you are?”


“I’m a microbiology technician at the Academic Medical Center in Amsterdam.”


“So, you are part of the medical community in the Netherlands. Interesting, but I’m surprised. I’d heard you were a militiaman, so I assumed you’d be somehow connected with the military or the defense industry.”


“Being a member of a militia has been a hobby since I was a teenager. One other quick question, if you don’t mind my asking. As a forensic pathologist, are you here in Essex Falls personally or professionally?”


“A bit of both. Since you’re part of the medical fraternity, I’ll be a bit more explicit. My wife, who is also a forensic pathologist, and I are visiting Dr. Bob, who happens to be an old friend. That’s the social aspect. But in addition, tomorrow morning, we’ll be helping him do an autopsy at his office on a young man who managed to get himself poisoned. I assume you’ve heard, since it is a small town and he was a founding member of the Diehard Patriots, the group you and your colleagues are here to instruct. Following the autopsy we’ll also be consulting with Dr. Bob on what seems to be a local 
outbreak of a neurodegenerative Alzheimer’s-like condition that’s killed a couple of people and sickened quite a few others that all tested negative for Alzheimer’s.”


Alexei stiffened as if Jack had slapped him. In one fell swoop, he’d learned three things he didn’t want to hear. The first was that Ethan Jameson was soon going to be autopsied by highly trained specialists, meaning that the presence of Novichok would most likely be detected; second, there were two forensic pathologists visiting, not one, which hugely complicated any simple preventive maneuver like using more Novichok to rid the scene of a threatening individual; and third, their prion proof of concept was already attracting professional attention, which was something they’d never considered. It had always been assumed that it wouldn’t happen until they were long gone and safely back in Mother Russia.


“That’s rather a coincidence, wouldn’t you say,” Jack said.


“What’s a coincidence?” As if waking from a mini-trance, Alexei realized that for a stunned moment he’d tuned out the conversation and missed the last thing Jack had said.


“It’s a coincidence that my wife and I are sharing the same lake with you and your compatriots. When we first arrived this afternoon, we could see several of you using the diving board on the dock.”


“Yes, of course, that is quite a coincidence,” Alexei said and immediately wondered if this coincidence might possibly be a godsend. The two houses certainly were isolated. He then made a point of checking his watch. “Uh-oh! I’m sorry, but I have to get on my way. The person who picks me up is a bear about waiting even for a few minutes.”


“Are you going to play again tomorrow?” Jack asked.


“I’d like to,” Alexei said while beginning to back away.


“We’ll continue our conversation if you do,” Jack said. “You’re a talented basketball player yourself. Did you play in school?”


“I did,” Alexei said. “In secondary school in…” Alexei caught himself at the last second, realizing that in his agitated state he was about to say Staraya Russa instead of the Dutch town he’d committed to memory as part of his fictious background. Stumbling over his words he managed to add: “I really have to go. Sorry!”


“I hope to see you tomorrow,” Jack said with a wave.


Power walking away, Alexei skirted the elementary school and emerged out onto Main Street. Nearly seven, the town appeared far different than it had at five o’clock. Now it was almost devoid of vehicular traffic and pedestrians except down near Ted’s Diner and across the street at the town’s only bar.


“Come on, Dmitry!” Alexei urged under his breath. With what he’d learned, he was frantic to get back to the Bennet Estate to fill in the others, particularly egomaniacal Viktor. Although nervous and even fearful about what might happen over the next few days, he also felt a degree of self-righteous indignation that he’d been correct and Viktor wrong about this insistence on a final prion harvest and release instead of packing up and leaving on Monday when they had planned. Had they left then, they would already be back in Koltsovo, most likely celebrating with their immediate families the completion of a hugely successful operation that could result in all four of them getting an Order of Merit to the Fatherland. They all knew the higher-ups in the GRU were going to be ecstatic about the efficacy of theta prion as a game-changing bioweapon. Instead, here they were still isolated in the middle of nowhere with a ballooning existential threat like a gathering summer storm.


Finally in the distance Alexei saw the Dodge Ram appear, heading in his direction. To speed up the pickup, he stepped out in the 
street so Dmitry could just merely come to a stop and Alexei would leap in. Thirty seconds later, that was exactly what happened.


“How was your game?” Dmitry questioned as he made a U-turn in the empty street and then headed back the way he’d come.


“The game was fine. For exercise it couldn’t have been better as I played continuously. But at the very end I learned some serious shit that Viktor and Nikolai need to know immediately. In twenty-four hours or so, we could be in deep trouble, meaning there’s some key decisions that have to be made and made right away, like tonight.”


“Uh-oh,” Dmitry voiced. “This doesn’t sound good. Give me a short version so I know what’s coming.”


By the time Dmitry pulled up to the back of the Bennet House, he’d gotten the whole story and was now as agitated as Alexei. Even before he’d had time to turn off the engine, Alexei was out of the cab, heading for the door. As quickly as he could, Dmitry followed. A moment later they burst into the kitchen.


As they’d expected given the hour, Viktor and Nikolai were at the fancy, commercial-sized, modern cooktop. Both men thought of themselves as gourmets, and Viktor even more than Nikolai considered himself an accomplished chef. For him, cooking had been the main diversion to pass the isolation time required for the prion operation. Although he insisted that Alexei and Dmitry do all the food shopping at the supermarket in Indian River, he spent hours on the shopping list most every day and demanded the highest quality foodstuffs available. Every night, he and Nikolai would make dinner. For them it was the high point of the day and that night was no exception, with Viktor busy with his favorite dish, beef Stroganoff, while Nikolai was making his mother’s version of borscht. Both men 
were intent on what they were doing with little conversation. A low-volume Rimsky-Korsakov symphony floated out of a speaker.


“We’ve got one hell of a problem!” Alexei called out to get the two commanders’ attention as he rushed up to the central island.


Viktor didn’t respond verbally but rather merely raised his hand as if to say what he was currently doing was far more important than anything Alexei might have to report. He then turned his attention back to the stove while he added his carefully seared beef tenderloin strips to the sour cream, onions, and mushrooms.


With obvious frustration, Alexei exchanged a quick, disbelieving glance with Dmitry along with a shake of his head. Dmitry responded by rolling his eyes. Alexei leaned against the kitchen island and tried to calm his racing heart.


“All right,” Viktor said once he had his beef Stroganoff simmering to his liking. “Let’s hear about this supposed problem.”


Nikolai had also adjusted the temperature on his soup and was now leaning against the stove with his arms folded, facing Alexei.


“It’s bad,” Alexei said ardently. “There is a husband-and-wife team of forensic pathologists in town. They are going to autopsy Ethan Jameson tomorrow morning.”


“Calm down,” Viktor said in a soothing voice.


“You know what a forensic pathologist is, don’t you?” Alexei added with alarm.


“Of course I know what a forensic pathologist is,” Viktor responded, at first taking issue with the suggestion but quickly calming himself. “Is that it, or is there more?”


“There’s more, but isn’t that enough?” Alexei questioned with growing alarm, fearful that Viktor was missing the point and not recognizing the seriousness of the threat. “With forensic specialists 
the chance of Novichok being recognized becomes a near certainty. When that happens, there’s going to be a major investigation, and it wouldn’t be just by the ridiculous local policija. We’ve got to get out of here. We should have left Monday when we planned.”


“No Russian!” Viktor ordered.


“Oh, for shit’s sake,” Alexei burst out, throwing his hands up in the air. “What the hell difference does it make at this point?”


“It makes a lot of difference,” Viktor snapped back. “We are doing one more release. End of story! We’re not giving up on that plan because of a couple of visitors. What else did you learn? You said there was more.”


“The husband-wife forensic pathology team are staying in the only house we can see from our porch, meaning they’re sharing this same isolated, private lake.”


“Well, isn’t that a helpful coincidence,” Viktor said with a devilish smile. “That raises possibilities. Maybe we can think of some way to just have them disappear overnight. We’re certainly more than adequately armed thanks to all the guns and ammunition the Diehard Patriots left for our approval.”


“If it was one forensic pathologist, maybe there’s a ghost of a chance of something like that working,” Alexei said, calming down an iota. He was pleased that at least a serious discussion was ensuing. “If he and his wife were to both disappear, I’m afraid it would cause almost as much of an uproar as the discovery of Novichok, and with us being the only other people on the lake, we’d be in the crosshairs either way.”


“Maybe you are right,” Viktor conceded. He glanced briefly over at Nikolai, and Nikolai nodded in agreement. Turning back to Alexei, Viktor asked if there was more.


“There is more,” Alexei said, “and this might be equally as bad. 
The two pathologists are also going to be consulting with the local doctor maybe even tomorrow morning after the autopsy, about the recent Alzheimer’s-like deaths he’s seen that tested negative for Alzheimer’s. That’s obviously our handiwork, and we expected to be long gone before the authorities had any suspicions.”


“That doesn’t worry me in the slightest,” Viktor said with a wave of dismissal.


“And why not?” Alexei asked with surprise.


“Because relating the outbreak of Alzheimer’s-like dementia to outside contamination of the town’s domestic water system is an enormous if not impossible epidemiological challenge. It’s going to take months even under the best of circumstances, and to be honest, I’m not convinced it will ever get done. By the time it even occurs to someone to test the municipal holding tanks where you and Dmitry have been dumping the theta prion, the concentration will be so minuscule as to be undetectable. And this is on top of how difficult it is to detect prions in the environment in the best of circumstances, which is part of the reason they make the perfect bioweapon. That and how damn stable they are.”


For several beats, Alexei stared back at Viktor. Thanks to his technical training, he knew the commander was undoubtedly correct. They didn’t have to worry about being caught out for the real purpose of their mission no matter what these visiting pathologists did or said and, in all likelihood, the West wasn’t going to learn about the technology of using prions as a bioweapon until they were told, if they were going to be told. Alexei wasn’t even sure of that. In fact, he admitted as did his co-conspirators that they had no idea what the Russian FSB or the GRU intended to do with the capability once they had in hand the proof of concept that it worked superbly.


“It seems to me,” Viktor said, breaking the extended silence, “we’re really facing only one short-term problem and that problem has a solution. We need to prevent this upcoming autopsy so we can finish the harvest, do the final release, and head for home.”


“What do you have in mind, Viktor?” Nikolai asked.


“There’s not much choice,” Viktor said. “If we’re restricted in our ability to make the forensic pathologists disappear, then I suggest we make the body disappear.”


“That sounds like the best suggestion so far,” Nikolai said. “Do we know where the body is?”


“I was told the autopsy was going to be in the local doctor’s office,” Alexei offered.


“There you go,” Viktor said. “That means the body has to be there and would have to be kept cool. In fact, if that’s where he does his autopsies, there’s got to be some kind of cooler. You can’t have one without the other. Alexei and Dmitry! It seems that you two have a bit of work to do this evening. Are you up for it?”


Alexei and Dmitry exchanged another glance, this time with an audible sigh of resignation.


“Assuming we find the body,” Dmitry said. “What the hell are we supposed to do with it?”


“Ah, a very good question,” Viktor said. He looked at Nikolai. “Any suggestions?”


“I don’t think we have a lot of choice,” Nikolai said. “We can’t have it discovered. I think we have to bring it back here.”


“But where would we put it?” Viktor questioned. “It’s going to get ripe very quickly if it isn’t already.”


“What about putting it down in the wine cellar?” Nikolai suggested.


“I can’t imagine that is cool enough,” Viktor said with a shake of his head. “And it will start to smell up the entire house.”


“Then I don’t know what we could do with it,” Nikolai said. “But wait! I do have an idea. What about the old icehouse out back? It’s perfect. It’s mostly underground, and it’s got a lockable, formidable door. Most important, I’ve never seen the lawn people or the property management fellows go in there, so it should be secure. Have any of you seen anybody go in?”


All shook their heads.


“The boys could make a run up to the supermarket in Indian River and get some bulk ice to pack around the body,” Nikolai added. “That will help slow any putrefaction, and we can add additional ice over the next few days until we leave.”


Both Alexei and Dmitry stiffened at being called “boys” by Nikolai, but both held their tongues.


“Good idea,” Viktor said with a nod. “That’s the plan unless we come up with something better in the meantime. So, Alexei and Dmitry, you two head out and get the ice while Nikolai and I finish preparing the dinner. By the time you get back, we’ll have it on the table. Then after dinner you two can go get the body. Are you okay not taking a shower until later, Alexei?”


“I suppose,” Alexei said, although he didn’t know why Dmitry couldn’t go to the damn supermarket by himself. He also wondered how easy it was going to be to find Ethan Jameson’s body. The man had been such a pain in the ass when he was alive, Alexei couldn’t help fear he might turn out to be equally difficult in death.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 12


Wednesday, July 23, 7:35 
p.m.


Hamilton County, New York


Laurie was driving from the Hiram House to the Nielsons’, mainly because she’d gotten out to the Jeep before Jack. She’d even started the car’s engine before he’d appeared since she was eager to get underway, and it was obvious that they were going to be a bit late. Jack had not gotten back from his basketball playing until after seven, even though they were due at the Nielsons’ at seven thirty. She was a stickler for being on time for social engagements, whereas Jack was a bit loosey-goosey in such circumstances, even though in professional situations he was invariably early.


“Hey, relax,” Jack encouraged, sensing Laurie’s tenseness as she turned east on the road to Indian River and then north on the road to Eastham. “We’re on vacation, and you in particular are on vacation after your coup this morning about the new morgue. I’m sure Bob got home about the same time as I. I wouldn’t be shocked if he was still in the shower when we get there.”


“You’re right,” Laurie admitted and visibly relaxed. “Being accustomed to New York City where everything is convenient, I’m finding it frustrating how far we have to drive to get to a lake only a mile away from ours as the crow flies.”


Jack laughed. “As they say: You can take the girl out of New York but you can’t take New York out of the girl.”


Laurie reached over and playfully swatted Jack’s thigh, and he humorously overreacted.


A few minutes later they pulled up to a snug, two-story, cedar shingled, relatively new, wood-frame house with lots of multipaned windows all attractively shuttered. Emerging from the center of its dormered gambrel roof was a massive fieldstone chimney. What was most impressive to the two urbanites was how close it was built to a lake that was remarkably similar in size and appearance to theirs, except that here there were a number of houses visible along its shoreline. Even from within their car they could see at least a half dozen, each with its own dock.


Laurie switched off the car’s ignition, but for a moment neither she nor Jack moved, taking in the scene. “What a cute house,” she said, finally breaking the silence. “It’s such a different world from ours. It’s so peaceful and clean. On another note, what architectural style would you call it?”


“I haven’t the slightest idea,” Jack said. “But it is cute, although I doubt that ‘cute’ is an architectural term.”


“I’m sure you got that right,” Laurie said with a laugh. “Come on! Let’s go inside. We’re already late.”


As Laurie and Jack exited their respective sides of the Jeep, the home’s distinctive, bright red, high-gloss paneled front door flew open. Bob emerged, holding the door ajar with one hand and waving with the other. “Welcome, folks! Get your butts in here! Chief 
Hargrove and his wife, Grace, are already here and the barbie is fired up and raring to go.”


“We were both quite taken by your home,” Laurie said as she approached the door Bob was holding open for them. “It’s so charming.”


“Thank you,” Bob said. “We’re happy with it. Carol and I had decided to downsize when our last daughter left for college three years ago, and in preparation we’d spent the prior years designing this house with the help of an architect we’d found over in Saratoga Springs.”


“You guys did a great job,” Laurie said. She paused to gaze more closely at the front façade. “What style would you call it?”


Bob shrugged. “I don’t know if it could be considered any particular style. It’s kind of our fusion of Colonial and Cape Cod. Inside you’ll see it is more Colonial than Cape Cod while out here it is the opposite.


“Now let me ask you a question. How did you find the Pilates class this afternoon? Carol told me you’d participated.”


“It was terrific,” Laurie said. “The instructor is very good, but I’ll probably be paying for it in the morning. I’ve not been as good about exercising ever since I became chief medical examiner.”


“She’s been working nonstop,” Jack chimed in. He’d come up behind Laurie. “That’s why the invite to this paradise of yours is so timely.”


“I’m thrilled,” Bob said. “I’m certainly thankful you’re both here. It’s obviously a win-win situation. With that said, come on in and meet the Hargroves!”


“And I get to meet Carol,” Jack reminded him as he started to follow Laurie into the house. But coming abreast of Bob, who was 
still holding the door ajar, he held up. “Before I forget, I wanted to tell you that we’ve invited a friend and his girlfriend to come up from the city tomorrow and enjoy the incredibly spacious accommodations you’ve provided us. I hope that’s okay.”


“Of course it is,” Bob assured him. “Is he another forensic pathologist?”


Jack laughed. “Not quite. But he’s a basketball buddy and a superb player. I’m sure he’ll want to play if you’ll have him.”


“The more the merrier,” Bob said, gesturing for Jack to enter.


Inside, Jack and Laurie were surprised to find the first floor of the home was mostly one big open space with a large, Colonial style fieldstone chimney dominating the center of the room with back-to-back fireplaces that were almost big enough to walk into. One fireplace faced into the kitchen, the other into the living area. The kitchen was in the left rear corner with plenty of windows overlooking both the lake and a sizable deck. Bob’s wife was by the sink preparing corn on the cob to go on the grill. Also in the kitchen was a large metal crate containing a youthful, good-sized, black Labrador retriever with a shiny coat and sad eyes.


After a proper introduction between Jack and Carol, Jack gestured toward the dog. “I hope your pet is not locked up for our benefit,” he said.


“Blacky tends to be overzealous when it comes to company,” Carol explained.


“He wouldn’t bother us,” Laurie said. “We’re closeted dog lovers. Living in the city combined with the hours we work, we’ve had to forgo the pleasure of a dog but with regret.”


“Really?” Carol questioned and glanced at her husband. Bob shrugged, indicating the decision was up to her.


“Okay,” Carol said. “Just let me know if he becomes bothersome.” She reached down and undid the cage’s latch. With sudden freedom beckoning, Blacky bolted from the crate and immediately reared up on his hind legs such that Laurie had to fend him off.


Bob reached out and grabbed Blacky’s collar, restraining the excited and overly friendly dog. Changing direction, Blacky tried the same maneuver with Jack, but on this occasion Bob succeeded in keeping him on all fours. A moment later the animal calmed enough for Bob to let him go and for Jack and Laurie both to give him a vigorous petting, which he obviously relished.


“Okay,” Bob said when Jack and Laurie were finished greeting Blacky. “Come on out on the porch and meet our chief of police and his lovely wife, Grace.”


Jack started toward the open French doors, but Laurie held back. “Can I lend a hand?” she asked Carol.


“No. please,” Carol responded. “You go out and meet the Hargroves. I’ll be out momentarily with the corn.”


Bob held open the screen doors and Blacky dashed out, followed by Jack and Laurie. Outside the two New Yorkers found themselves on a deck constructed on a grand scale, extending the entire length of the house and a good thirty feet wide. The last five or six feet were cantilevered out over the lake about six feet above the water’s surface. Since the house was on the west shore, it shielded the late afternoon sun. In the distance, the Adirondack Mountains were bathed in golden tones.


At the northern end of the veranda was a built-in barbecue along with a granite topped wet bar. On the bar was a platter of double-thick loin lamb chops. Near the barbecue was a round table with eight dining chairs, two of which were occupied. The rest of the 
furniture on the deck, appropriately enough, consisted of a bevy of brightly colored Adirondack chairs. At the southern end, stairs ran down to a floating dock.


Both Jack and Laurie stopped for a moment to absorb the incredible scene. “I do hope you recognize just how exquisitely gorgeous this all is,” Laurie said to her host.


“I think we do,” Bob said with a smile and a series of nods. “From late May to the beginning of October, we essentially live out here on this deck. I can even dive off the edge because, as I mentioned, the lakes get deep rather quickly.”


“I noticed that when I walked out on the dock at the Hiram House,” Jack said.


“Geologically they are thought to have been made by glaciers scooping out these deep basins back in the Ice Age.”


Jack nodded. It wasn’t something he knew much about, but it sounded good.


“Come and meet the Hargroves,” Bob said, encouraging Jack and Laurie to approach the table. The introductions were simple and quick.


For Jack and Laurie, the Hargroves looked the part of small-town police chief and wife, and both had a pleasant, down-home aura. He was a stocky, powerfully built man although obviously mildly past his prime with a bit of belly fat. Like Bob his face was craggy, as evidence of exposure to the harsh elements of the Essex Falls winters. In contrast with Bob, his hair was white and thinning. He exuded a friendly but no-nonsense personality and his accent was mildly unique and clipped, especially to those accustomed to the New York City cadence.


After the introductions, Bob insisted Jack and Laurie take the seats with the best view out over the lake. Then Bill and Grace 
retook their seats while Bob went to the wet bar to get a white wine for Laurie and a beer for Jack. He then took a seat at the table as did Carol after she’d put the corn with husks still on at the fringes of the barbecue to cook slowly.


“What’s it like being the police chief of such a peaceful, beautiful town?” Laurie asked, making conversation.


“It can be downright challenging,” Bill said, catching Laurie by surprise.


“Oh?” Laurie questioned. Taken aback, she exchanged a quick glance in Jack’s direction. Wordlessly he communicated the same reaction, but only she responded: “How so? We’ve been truly impressed by the sense of tranquility and the beauty here. To Jack and me, it seems like a Valhalla, although we can’t imagine what the weather is like here in January.”


“Coming from where you do, I can understand why,” Bill said. “I suppose my biggest headache is staffing. My budget has been drastically cut by necessity. Before the Bennet Shoe factory closure, we were a fifteen-man force. Now we are down to five, which makes scheduling difficult.”


“I never thought of that,” Laurie admitted.


“I’m sorta in the same boat as the only doc in town,” Bob said. “But at least I get to go home. Bill rightly insists the police station is manned twenty-four seven.”


“I do, indeed,” Bill agreed with an emotional nod. “And on top of that ever-present stress, there happen to be some troublesome undercurrents in this town, which keeps us law enforcement folks on edge.”


“Oh?” Laurie questioned again. “One would never guess. Like what?”


“For instance, we unfortunately have a homegrown right-wing 
extremist group that’s become progressively emboldened, particularly of late.”


“Oh, right,” Laurie said. “We’d seen signs for the Diehard Patriots when we first drove into town, and then Bob told us about them. But Bob hinted they weren’t really a problem. Is that not true?”


“Maybe from his point of view,” Bill said with emotion. “But from my perspective, it’s just a matter of time before someone is going to get hurt, and I’m talking about getting really hurt. Yet we can’t stop them. One of the members’ family owns a significant chunk of land with an abandoned farmhouse. It’s on the road to the Rubington Paper Mill. That’s where they usually go at night for their so-called tactical maneuvers and shoot their assault-style weapons. Unfortunately, as I said, I can’t stop them, especially since it’s outside the town limits. But even the county sheriff, who I’ve talked to about the problem, can’t stop them because it’s private property. Anyway, it’s got all these generally pissed-off, conspiracy-minded young men, driving around town with AR-15s, many with bump stocks, in their truck cabs and Glock pistols in their glove compartments, meaning we’re outgunned big-time. Worrying about it keeps me up at night.”


“I can understand,” Laurie said, and indeed she could.


“It all stems from the unfortunate closure of the Bennet Shoe factory,” Bill said with his voice continuing to rise while his tanned face flushed with a reddish tint. “Little did we know back then that we were going to be ultimately saddled with our own native militia after so many of our young men—unmotivated individuals who didn’t fit in socially from what I can see—faced poor employment opportunities and then blamed their problems on globalization, immigration, and multiculturalism rather than take responsibility personally.”


“Interesting,” Laurie said. She glanced briefly at Jack, wishing he’d say something, but he seemed content just to listen and sip his beer. Turning her attention back to Bill, she said: “I can see you’ve given this issue a lot of thought.”


“It’s hard not to,” Bill said, his voice calming significantly to Laurie’s relief. “It’s a problem I think is all over postindustrial rural America. The Bennet Shoe factory closing turned a lot of families upside down here in Essex Falls, including Ethan Jameson’s. I know for a fact that boy suffered terribly due to serious domestic abuse. Over many years he struggled, and ultimately he turned into a quintessential white supremacist, rest his soul. I understand from Bob that you all will be autopsying him in the morning.”


“That’s our plan,” Laurie said.


“I’ll be relieved to find out exactly how he managed to kill himself,” Bill said. “Having no idea has had me terrified that someone else could suffer the same fate. Four other kids from our town all work out there at American Pest Control. That pesticide stuff scares me, toxic as it is.”


“I hope you don’t have too high an expectation of what we can do,” Laurie said. “As we told Bob, we’ll ultimately confirm he died of a poisoning, if that is indeed the case, but being more specific will involve sending specimens to our toxicology laboratory. Tomorrow we’ll probably have a pretty good idea if the cause of death was poison or not, but we won’t know the specific agent—although from his reputed symptoms there’s a strong suggestion it was an organophosphate or what is called an anticholinesterase.”


“Any and all information will be helpful,” Bill said.


“We’ll certainly provide all the information we can,” Jack said, entering the conversation to Laurie’s relief. “But talking about Ethan Jameson brings up the issue about the Netherlander militia 
members that he was responsible for inviting to Essex Falls. Bob happened to tell us that you went out to the Bennet Estate and talked directly to them.”


“I did,” Bill said. “There was no way I wasn’t going to check out a group of foreign militia members who were planning on staying here in our town for a month, supposedly instructing our local militia in military tactics. It all seemed suspicious to me.”


Jack smiled. Bill had pronounced 
foreign
 as “fa’ren,” exactly how Bob had described. “Bob told us that you found them pleasant.”


“I did,” Bill said. “There’s no doubt whatsoever. I’m not sure what I expected, but they were ultimately rather delightful with noticeable English or British accents, which I was told they’d gotten from having spent time studying in the UK. I spoke mostly to the one who seemed to be in charge. I guessed he was in his mid-forties, which I later confirmed when I checked his passport.”


“So, you had a good feeling about them when you met them?” Jack confirmed.


“I did,” Bill said. “They were very respectful and entirely cooperative. When I asked to see their passports, there was no hesitation or argument. And I believe my initial evaluation was right on. The whole time they’ve been here, there haven’t been any problems whatsoever. In fact, they have pretty much remained isolated out there at the Bennet Estate except, of course, when they’ve participated in the Diehard Patriots nighttime tactical maneuvers. Hell, they may very well be the reason the Diehards haven’t had any accidents, so I give them credit for that. What’s surprised me is that they have rarely come into town during the day except for one who plays basketball.”


“Yes, I met him this afternoon,” Jack said. “I even had a short conversation with him at the end of our game before he had to rush 
off to catch his ride. He’s certainly a pleasant enough fellow and a decent player although he fouls a bit more than is customary. I suppose that’s how they play in Holland.”


“Probably so,” Bill agreed. “I’ve never been much of a basketball player myself, so I wouldn’t know.”


“Have you paid them any subsequent visits?” Jack asked.


“I haven’t because there hasn’t been any reason,” Bill said. “They are obviously private people and keep to themselves, which I respect.”


“So, you haven’t seen their brewery that Ethan’s girlfriend told you about Monday when you spoke with her?”


“No, I haven’t.”


“Aren’t you curious about it?”


“Not particularly. There’re several people I know in town who are into making their own brew, and they’re rather fanatical about it. It’s not my cup of tea, but to each his own.”


“When I had the brief conversation with the Netherlander basketball player, he told me he was a microbiological technician who worked at an academic medical center in Amsterdam. To tell you the truth, it surprised me. Since I’d heard he’s here as a militiaman, I naturally assumed he would be involved in a more military oriented field rather than medical. When you originally went out there, did you happen to learn what any of their vocations were?”


“I didn’t,” Bill admitted. “Like you, I assumed it had to have something to do with the military, but there was no reason for me to ask.”


“Okay, enough speculation about our visitors!” Bob said, getting to his feet. “What do you say about everybody refreshing their drinks while I put the meat on the grill. I don’t know about you, but I’m famished.”


There was a universal murmur of approval as everyone stood up in unison.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 13


Wednesday, July 23, 9:15 
p.m.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


“This might have been our best dinner since we’ve been in Essex Falls,” Viktor said as he leaned back contentedly in his high-topped chair. They were eating at the island in the kitchen for convenience’s sake. Occasionally when they’d made one of their special meals, like the dinner they’d just had, they used the formal dining room. But on this particular night with Alexei and Dmitry slotted to head out on their quest to find and bring back Ethan Jameson’s body, they opted for the efficiency of eating in the kitchen.


“Your Stroganoff was superb,” Nikolai agreed, causing Alexei and Dmitry to exchange a knowing glance. Nikolai was such an ingratiating sycophant.


“I know,” Viktor said unabashedly, with a contented smile. “Your borscht was first class as well.”


“Thanks to my mother,” Nikolai said.


“I just had an idea,” Dmitry said, interrupting Viktor and Nikolai’s self-congratulating exchange.


“Well, there’s a first time for everything,” Viktor said, looking over at Dmitry and garnering a guffaw from Nikolai. “Let’s hear it.”


Dmitry held himself in check before saying: “I think I have a better idea of what to do with Ethan Jameson’s body than putting it into the icehouse. We don’t know whether any of the maintenance people go in it or not, which could be a disaster. What’s in the icehouse? Does anybody know? I’ve never even looked in there.”


“Not much,” Viktor said. “I looked inside back when we first got here. It’s mostly just empty shelving on one side with some dusty old cardboard boxes. On the other side are mostly a bunch of old, louvered outdoor shutters. There are no gardening tools or anything like that. But you are correct. We don’t know for certain whether anyone goes in there. What’s your better idea?”


“To take advantage of the lake,” Dmitry said. “I don’t know about any of you, but when I’ve used the diving board, I’ve been amazed at the difference between the water temperature near the surface and just a meter or two down, where it feels like the Baltic Sea.”


“So, what’s your idea?” Viktor questioned.


“There’s rope in the barn and there are those old building blocks in the back of the house,” Dmitry said. “With one of the building blocks as an anchor, we can just toss the body off the diving board. Hell, it’s plenty deep enough, and I can imagine its darn near freezing at the bottom. Besides, the fish will love it. They’ll probably have the corpse down to bare bone in no time.”


For a moment, Viktor stared at Dmitry before nodding and saying: “Brilliant. I like it.”


“Thanks,” Dmitry said.


“All right,” Viktor said. He pushed back and stood up. “Here’s 
the plan: Nikolai and I will take charge of the cleanup tonight for a change while you boys do your run into town to get the damn body. I like this new idea, I like it a lot, and the sooner we get it out there in the lake to feed the fishes the better. And needless to say, don’t get caught. Am I clear?”


Both Alexei and Dmitry said yes in unison but then rolled their eyes for each other’s benefit.


Twenty minutes later with Alexei behind the wheel of the Dodge Ram and Dmitry riding shotgun, they turned left from the Bennet Estate driveway onto the Indian River Road and headed toward Essex Falls. The only thing they’d brought with them were several small flashlights they’d found in the kitchen miscellaneous drawer.


“Is it just me or are you getting tired of how Viktor and Nikolai are treating us?” Dmitry asked. He and Alexei had both been caught up in their own thoughts since they’d gotten into the truck.


“To be honest, I haven’t liked their condescension from day one,” Alexei said with obvious emotion.


Dmitry cast a quick glance over at Alexei. Alexei had surprised him because in his presence Alexei had always been nothing but strictly respectful to the superiors. “We need to get out of here and back to Russia,” Dmitry added as a statement of fact.


“We should have left Monday,” Alexei agreed. “Staying here to do another harvest is a stupid idea, taking a huge risk for no benefit.”


“Is there any way you can speed up the theta prion harvest?” Dmitry asked.


“I wish,” Alexei responded. “At this point all we can do is keep the galactose concentration at a specific level, same with the temperature, acidity, and oxygen, all of which is being done.”


“I’ll take your word for it,” Dmitry said. “All that microbiological recombinant technology is beyond me.”


“What do you think our chances are that we’re even going to find Ethan Jameson’s body, much less get it back to the Bennet Estate?” Alexei asked, changing the subject. “It irks me that Viktor and Nikolai are so cavalier about it, as if we can just waltz into the Bennet Clinic building and walk out with it. You and I have had no training for something like this.”


“I’m with you. It was my immediate concern as well.”


“Jack, the forensic pathologist, merely said they were going to do the autopsy in the local doctor’s office. He didn’t say anything about where the body was.”


“For whatever it’s worth, it does make sense the body would be where they will do the procedure.”


“But if there is no cooler, it can’t be there. If it’s not, I’m worried it might be in the funeral home on the other side of town near the police department. They have to have a cooler to store bodies before they embalm them.”


“Without doubt,” Dmitry agreed. “But let’s think positive since we don’t have a lot of choice. We have to find that body and make it disappear. Let’s just concentrate on the first step, getting into the Bennet Clinic building to see what we can find. At least the building is in a commercial part of town, so at this time of night there shouldn’t be any witnesses.”


“Okay, I’m with you,” Alexei said in a forced, spirited fashion to buoy his own spirits.


They entered the western end of Main Street. As they expected, at nearly ten o’clock at night, it was almost deserted. There were a few people doing the final cleaning at Ted’s Diner, and the only bar in town, the Ale House on the opposite side of the street, was moderately busy with a half dozen trucks parked in the immediate vicinity. Beyond the school and library, there was almost no activity 
at all, and by the time they got to the end of Main Street where it abutted the old Bennet factory building, the town appeared deserted.


Alexei turned right and pulled into the parking area, which was completely empty, and immediately doused the headlights. With a gibbous moon high in the sky, they could see fine as they drove along the side of the building heading back to the freight dock.


“What do you think we should do with the truck?” Alexei asked, pulling to a stop. “It’s an issue I hadn’t thought about until this second. Being the only vehicle in the parking lot, it’s going to stand out if the police happen to drive by.”


“Why would they?” Dmitry asked.


Alexei shrugged. “Just making rounds, I suppose. I don’t know whether the Essex Falls police do that or not on a regular basis. The police certainly did in Staraya Russa, where I grew up.”


“They did it in Ryazan, too. Okay, let’s not take any chances by leaving it here to attract attention. I saw some vans parked down the street toward Roaring Fork River where there are a few other commercial buildings. Let’s leave it there.”


“Good idea,” Alexei said. He did a U-turn and then drove back out to the street and made a left. He didn’t bother using the headlights with the moon providing more than enough light.


Five minutes later, they were back at the clinic building. Approaching the double front door, Dmitry tried it. It was locked as they expected. Alexei had his flashlight out, and shielding its beam, he illuminated the door’s lock.


“How are you at picking a lock?” Alexei asked.


“With no tools, terrible. With tools I’m not too bad. I had some experience as a teenager.”


“I’ve no experience whatsoever,” Alexei admitted. “I’m beginning 
to think we should have planned this a bit more. What were we thinking?”


“We weren’t thinking. We were following orders.”


Alexei laughed but without humor. “Let’s try the freight dock.”


Walking quickly, they rounded the building, staying within its shadow as best they could. Reassuringly, they saw and heard no one. At the freight dock, they mounted the five steps despite the overhead light illuminating the platform. While Alexei quickly tried the large overhead door, Dmitry tried the side door. Both were locked. Rapidly they fled the lighted area, but then held up when they got back into the shadows.


“I just got a new worry,” Dmitry said. “We’re trying to break into a doctor’s office where there are undoubtedly drugs. We’ve not even thought about there being an alarm system. What are we going to do if there is?”


“Good God,” Alexei murmured. It was true; as isolated as the town was, he hadn’t given the idea of an alarm system any consideration. “You’re the electronics guy. Can we somehow tell if there is an alarm system using our phones?”


“No, that’s not going to work. We’d need a frequency scanner. Phones don’t do that.”


“So, what do you suggest?”


“I think we just have to hope for the best,” Dmitry said. “On the positive side, I haven’t seen anything at any of the doors we’ve tried suggesting an alarm or camera or any security whatsoever. Ultimately, I’m afraid we’ll have to just break in somehow, probably through a window, if we can find one unlocked, and see what happens. If there is an alarm, we’ll get the hell away from here and give up on finding the body.”


“Agreed! All right, let’s check the windows.”


Going from window to window, they learned all were unfortunately locked although, encouragingly enough, they did not see any signs of an alarm system. Finally in the rear of the building that faced the reservoir, the second window they checked was missing half of its lock.


“All right!” Dmitry said as he positioned himself to see if he could push open the chest-high window by using the tips of his fingers against the sash’s horizontal muntins. “This is the defining moment. Are you ready?”


“As ready as I’ll ever be,” Alexei said after a final glance around the area.


Dmitry pushed, and to his surprise, the window slid open with comparative ease. He immediately withdrew his hands and both men held their breaths, listening intently. Several seconds passed and then a full minute. Silence reigned.


“I think we are in the clear,” Dmitry ventured.


“Seems that way,” Alexei responded. “All right let’s do it.” Cupping his hands, he positioned himself to give Dmitry a leg up. A moment later Dmitry, who’d disappeared headfirst into the darkened room with Alexei’s help, reappeared. He in turn helped Alexei come in also headfirst through the window by grabbing his belt and pulling.


“So far so good,” Alexei said as he and Dmitry took out their flashlights and turned them on, covering the beams with their free hands. They quickly surveyed the room, which was a storeroom with cabinets on one side and open shelves on the other.


Believing they’d be leaving through one of the building’s main entrances, Dmitry shut the window before Alexei opened the door 
to the hallway. The view was down a long dark corridor with what appeared to be the front double doors at the very end. The interior of the building was deathly quiet.


“How should we do this?” Alexei questioned. “This place is too big to search haphazardly. We could be here all night.”


“Agreed. Let’s start at the front and work our way back.”


Moving quickly and silently down the central corridor while being careful to cover their flashlights, they eventually found themselves in Dr. Bob’s waiting room in the only occupied office suite in the building. As they were about to check out the connected examination rooms, they heard tires crunching gravel in the parking area outside while car headlights briefly flashed through the window, sweeping around the waiting room before disappearing.


Nervously both men immediately switched off their flashlights, quickly flattened themselves against the wall on either side of the window, and then carefully looked out. To their distress, an Essex Falls police car had come into the parking area and pulled to a stop. As they watched holding their breaths, a uniformed officer opened the driver side door and stepped out leaving the door ajar, the car’s headlights on, and the engine idling.


“Do you think there was a silent alarm?” Alexei questioned in a terrified whisper.


“No idea,” Dmitry responded in an equivalent fashion.


“What should we do?”


“No idea.”


“I think we should dash back to the storeroom where we came in.”


“Hold up a second,” Dmitry said. “The doors are locked. I can’t imagine the police have a key. We might be safer in here than out there.”


In the next few seconds, they heard the front doors rattle as if the officer had grasped the handles and shook them. But then it stopped almost immediately. In the next instant, the officer reappeared and then walked past the window, heading east along the side of the building before again disappearing from view.


“Maybe it’s just a routine check,” Dmitry whispered hopefully.


In the next instant they could hear distantly the overhead door on the freight dock rattle as if someone was checking to make sure it, too, was secured. A moment later the police officer reappeared and climbed back into his squad car, pulling the door closed behind him. He then could be seen making an entry into his computer. A few seconds later the car made a rapid, sharp U-turn and disappeared from view.


Neither Alexei nor Dmitry moved or said a word. It was Dmitry who finally broke the silence. “Getting this damn body is going to be the death of me,” he managed, still whispering. “I’m in a cold sweat. I’m thinking we should just give up. It would be far easier to cause the damn forensic pathologists to disappear.”


“Without a doubt,” Alexei agreed, allowing himself to speak using a near normal volume but under the stress his voice cracked. After clearing his throat, he continued: “But, as I said earlier, the result of two highly regarded pathologists disappearing in this small, isolated town could very well be nearly the same as if Novichok is identified. We’d undoubtedly come under suspicion as the only other people staying on such an isolated lake.”


“All right. You’re right. Let’s get on with this. Should we split up or stay together?”


“Stay together in case the police car returns,” Alexei said. “What we need to do is find out where the autopsies are done.”


“I agree. Let’s do it!”


With renewed vigor, they rapidly passed through the clinical areas of Dr. Bob’s office, with quick glances into the various examination rooms, and then into a larger procedure room. Beyond the procedure room, they found themselves in the building’s receiving area with its closed and locked overhead door. Just beyond the receiving area they felt encouraged.


“This has to be where the autopsies are done,” Alexei said. They’d entered a good-sized, totally blue tiled room. Since there were no windows, they allowed their flashlights to shine unimpeded. The aged stainless steel dissecting table stood out dramatically in the center casting weird shadows on the opposite wall.


“Without doubt,” Dmitry said. He literally shivered. “I don’t like to imagine what has gone on in here. Morozit po kozhe!”


“Let’s not lapse into Russian,” Alexei warned. “But it chills my skin as well. More important, do you see what I see?” He pointed his flashlight beam to the wall behind the dissecting table, illuminating what was obviously an insulated door.


“I do indeed,” Dmitry said. “Let’s hope we’ve struck gold!” He briefly motioned as if he was praying.


Without another word, the two men quickly skirted the stainless steel table on opposite sides and approached the door. Dmitry pulled it open, stepping to the side as he did so. A cold, dense mist that completely filled the cooler’s interior from floor to ceiling began to waft out, swirling around their legs and layering itself over the autopsy room’s tiled floor. A moment later, with gathering clarity, two antique-style gurneys began to emerge within the cooler. Lying on the one on the left was Ethan Jameson’s remarkedly pale, supine, and naked corpse. To the Russians’ discomfiture his eyes were open, staring up into infinity. The other corpse was at least covered with a sheet.


“Well,” Dmitry said after a moment of silence. Both men were taken aback by the reality of having to deal directly with the dead body of someone they knew. “Let’s look on the bright side. At least we found him.”


“Yeah, lucky us,” Alexei responded. “Why are his eyes open? And why didn’t they at least cover him up?”


“We can worry about all that later,” Dmitry said. “Right now, we have to concentrate on getting him back to the Bennet Estate and into the lake. Let’s use the wagon he’s on to wheel him out to the freight dock rather than trying to carry him, which is going to be awkward to say the least. Then we can pull the truck around.”


“It’s called a gurney, not a wagon,” Alexei said.


“Who the hell cares,” Dmitry said with wave of dismissal. Stepping into the cooler, he reached out and tried to shut Ethan’s eyes, but the lids resisted. He then tried to raise one of Ethan’s hands but the whole arm moved instead. “He’s as stiff as a board.”


“It’s called rigor mortis,” Alexei said. “It will make it easier to handle him.”


“Wonderful,” Dmitry said sarcastically. “Let’s get this over with. I’ll push and you guide from your end.” He pocketed his flashlight and then squeezed between the two gurneys to position himself at the head of Ethan’s.


Grasping the gurney with one hand and holding his flashlight in the other, Alexei followed Dmitry’s suggestion and guided the gurney out into the room, avoiding the dissecting table. But then he held up when Dmitry called out to him to do so.


“Let me close the door to the cooler,” Dmitry said. A moment later he was back in position and recommenced pushing. “Since we didn’t have to break anything like a door or window to get inside the building, let’s make an effort to leave everything the way we 
found it, including putting this gurney back into the cooler. That way the body won’t be discovered to be missing until they’re ready to do the autopsy. It will provide an element of confusion instead of immediately thinking they’ve been robbed.”


Alexei surprised himself by being able to laugh at Dmitry’s suggestion. He imagined that they would be causing Dr. Bob and his visiting pathologists a lot of confusion in the morning when they tried to do the autopsy.


The rest of the body snatch went smoothly, although it took longer than they had anticipated because it necessitated leaving the body in the receiving bay while they got the truck. Then, after getting the body into the truck’s flatbed, they’d followed Dmitry’s suggestion to return everything to how they had found it, meaning taking the time to put the empty gurney back in the cooler, closing all interior doors they had opened, and exiting back out through the same window they’d used to enter. It was with great relief when they were done and able to drive out of town.


During the four-mile drive out to the Bennet Estate, they were able to relax to the point of joking about how tense they’d been during the episode. They even spent some time voicing anger over having to suffer through the ordeal while Viktor and Nikolai were probably relaxing in the ornate library with after-dinner vodkas.


“When we get back, I’m going to insist they help getting Ethan Jameson out of the truck’s cargo bed and into the lake,” Alexei said toward the end of the drive. “I want to let them know I’m sick and tired of you and me having to do all the work.”


“I’m not sure that’s in your best interest,” Dmitry cautioned. On the way back it was his turn to drive with Alexei in the passenger seat. “I’m not sure you should poke the bear because you’re the one 
who precipitated all this trouble in the first place by using Novichok, especially without their approval.”


Alexei hesitated for a moment thinking about what Dmitry said before admitting he was probably correct. Then as Dmitry turned in to the Bennet Estate’s lengthy driveway, he added: “All right, how should we handle this last part to make it as easy as possible on us?”


“I’m thinking I’ll drive directly out onto the lawn in front of the house and back up to the dock, so we won’t have far to carry the bastard. Then I’ll get a cinder block from the back of the house if you get a length of rope from the barn. Together we’ll rig the anchor, attach it to the body, then we’ll let him take his final dive off the diving board. It’s plenty deep there.”


“Sounds like a plan,” Alexei said. He was looking forward to putting this mini-complication caused by his use of Novichok behind him.


Five minutes later, they’d backed up within just a few feet of the dock before turning off the truck’s lights and engine. The moon was a bit lower in the sky than it had been earlier but it provided more than adequate light. It was a gorgeous summer night with a cool breeze. Across the lake, lights could be seen in the Hiram House.


Getting out of their respective sides, Alexei and Dmitry met at the back of the truck and lowered the tailgate. At this point there was no conversation. They’d put Ethan Jameson’s body onto the truck’s flatbed without bothering to cover it because they didn’t have a blanket. It was now at a very different angle than they’d left it, suggesting that it had been bouncing around.


Trying not to look at Ethan’s face, they slid the body out to the very edge of the tailgate before lifting it out and putting it on the ground. Then with Alexei at the head and Dmitry at the feet, they 
carried it out to the end of the dock where they placed it at the base of the steps leading up onto the diving board. Returning to land, they wordlessly went their separate ways, Alexei heading to the barn and Dmitry taking the path up to the house.


Twenty minutes later, and after a significant amount of effort and jockeying the corpse, they’d succeeded in getting the rope looped through one of the holes in the cinder block and firmly tied around Jameson’s ankles. Dmitry supported the corpse upright at the very end of the diving board, which wouldn’t have been possible without the rigor mortis. Alexei squatted behind him, holding the cinder block.


“Okay, on three,” Alexei said, a bit out of breath from exertion. He then began to count. The moment he said 
three,
 Dmitry let go of Ethan Jameson while Alexei tossed the block as far out as he could. A sizable double splash resulted, but the sound quickly vanished into the night air and the moment it did, it was replaced by muted applause.


With surprise, both Alexei and Dmitry turned to see Viktor and Nikolai standing on the dock at the base of diving board’s stairs.


“Well done!” Viktor called out, flashing a thumbs-up. “After you boys get the truck back to the parking area, come into the library for a vodka. You both have earned it.”


Alexei and Dmitry afforded each other a surreptitious, disgusted look.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 14


Thursday, July 24, 9:05 
a.m.


Essex Falls, New York


From Jack and Laurie’s perspective, it had already been a marvelous day. Exhausted after returning home from the Nielsons’ dinner party relatively early the night before, they’d turned in around eleven and then had awakened before sunrise. Eager to begin their first full day in paradise, they’d bounded out of bed immediately and despite the morning chill had enjoyed a quick dip in the lake as the sun rose. They had then taken advantage of Bob’s thoughtfulness of stocking the refrigerator by making and devouring a full breakfast of scrambled eggs, bacon, toasted English muffins, and coffee, something they never did at home even on weekends. Following breakfast Laurie spent time doing a series of stretches outside on the porch, taking in the view while trying to iron out the kinks resulting from the previous afternoon’s overzealous Pilates. For his part Jack floated the canoe and went for a short paddle on the mirror smooth lake, amazed at the clarity of the water and the size of the trout feasting on insects along the shoreline.


“Are you looking forward to doing this autopsy?” Laurie asked as she pulled into the Bennet Clinic’s parking lot. She’d insisted on driving.


“I am,” Jack admitted. “Are you?”


“Without doubt,” Laurie said. “You know me. I’ve been starved for intellectual forensic challenge with all the politics I’ve been smothered with. But how do you think we should handle this? Should we essentially do the case to show him how it should be done or let him do it and make comments?”


“That’s a good question, but I think it’s six of one, half a dozen of the other. Maybe we should ask him what he thinks would be the most helpful for him. I don’t care however we do it.”


“Good point,” Laurie said as they climbed out of the Jeep. “I notice Bob’s car is not here yet.”


“I noticed that, too, but he warned us he’d be making hospital rounds on his inpatients, which he does every morning. I give him a lot of credit. I don’t know how he does all this solo, meaning he’s on call twenty-four seven. And with the state of clinical medicine thanks to the inroads of private equity along with the ungodly power of health insurance companies, it’s a constant challenge just to stay afloat. All I can say is that I am so thankful I’m not still caught up in that rat race, which I had been back when I was a practicing ophthalmologist.”


“I’m glad to have never had to deal with it,” Laurie said as she pulled open one of the Bennet Clinic’s double doors and gestured for Jack to enter ahead of her. “Even as a medical student I could see the writing on the wall about what was happening to clinical medicine.”


They were moderately surprised not to find Melanie Hopkins at her reception desk in the waiting room as she had told them that 
she generally arrived about 8:00 
a.m
. Instead they found her back in the autopsy room busily setting up for the morning by laying out the tools and specimen bottles. She was already dressed for the autopsy with a surgical gown over her street clothes. Bob had told them that he and she had been learning to do autopsies together and that she was a quick study thanks to her extensive and varied nursing background. He’d fully admitted there was no way he could possibly do all he did without her invaluable input.


“How would you people like to outfit yourselves?” Melanie asked. “We have scrubs if you so desire. Bob and I usually just use heavy surgical gowns and impermeable aprons over our street clothes, plus face shields and booties.”


“That will be fine for me for the kind of case we’ll be doing,” Laurie said, glancing at Jack. Both were in casual summer shirts and jeans.


“Ditto,” Jack said.


“Actually, we’ll be doing two cases this morning not just one, provided it’s okay with you guys,” Melanie said apologetically. “Last evening one of the recent, rapid dementia patients Bob has been following passed away, and he hopes you’ll be willing to do it after Ethan Jameson.”


“No problem,” Laurie said. She looked at Jack and he nodded a definite yes.


“I just spoke with Bob a few minutes ago,” Melanie added. “He’s finished his rounds and on his way. He’ll be here momentarily. Also, there’s coffee back in his office, and it’s fresh. I make it every morning when I arrive.”


“We’ve had our coffee,” Laurie said. “In fact, thanks to Bob’s welcoming efforts we’ve had wonderfully full breakfasts.”


“Perfect,” Melanie said. “As you can see, I’ve laid out the usual 
autopsy tools that we use.” Melanie gestured toward the wheeled instrument tray. “Please let me know if there’s anything special you might want.”


“It looks to me like you have the basics,” Laurie said, glancing over the instruments.


“Let me show you where the gowns and aprons are,” Melanie said, waving for Jack and Laurie to follow her into the changing room, but she only got a few steps before Bob and his commanding presence swept into the room.


“Good morning! Good morning,” he repeated loudly with great enthusiasm. “How is everyone this glorious Essex Falls day and how was your night’s rest at the Hiram House?”


“It couldn’t have been better,” Jack said. “Seriously! We slept like a couple of logs, as the saying goes, and you’re spoiling us rotten with the marvelous breakfast makings you provided, not to mention the fabulous double-thick lamb chops last night. I didn’t know I was such a lamb fan.”


“I didn’t either until I had lamb loin chops,” Bob said. “Leg of lamb not so much. But switching gears: Did Melanie fill you in about the potential second autopsy this morning?”


“She did indeed,” Laurie said. “We’re happy to do it.”


“Terrific,” Bob said. “I was hoping you wouldn’t mind, and I didn’t want the news to spoil our evening. It’s sad to lose yet another Essex Falls resident to these curious and disturbing recent cases of early-onset and rapidly progressive dementia, but the timing in relation to your visit is too opportune to pass up. I was going to be consulting with you later today about the previous two deaths and the autopsies Melanie and I did on them, but this way you will be able to see for yourselves firsthand.


“I’ve been at a total loss of how to explain this apparent 
outbreak, if it is an outbreak; I mean, it is possible they are just a series of unrelated, sporadic dementia cases. But if they’re not, I question what I should be doing in my dual roles as the only doctor here in Essex Falls as well as the Hamilton County coroner. I’ve already officially reported the situation in writing to the state health authorities in both capacities, but they have yet to advise me on what they are going to do or what I should do. So far I’ve had a total of about a dozen cases of what seems to be an early and unusually rapidly progressive Alzheimer’s-like dementia. Isn’t that true, Melanie?”


“A dozen exactly,” Melanie confirmed. “But just yesterday I scheduled upcoming appointments this afternoon for what sounds like might be yet two more cases. So, the total might rise to fourteen.”


“My word! It all sounds intriguing,” Laurie said. “The two previous autopsy cases were the ones you thought were Alzheimer’s, but NMS Labs reported them to be negative.”


“That’s right,” Bob said. “Grossly and microscopically they looked to me like Alzheimer’s.”


“When you say ‘early’ do you mean the patients are young?” Laurie asked.


“Correct,” Bob said. “Today’s autopsy is forty-eight years old.”


“That’s definitely young for Alzheimer’s,” Laurie agreed. “And what exactly do you mean by ‘rapidly progressive’? What’s the time frame?”


“I’m talking about weeks from the initial symptoms to death,” Bob said. “It was more like having the flu or something similar, but instead of starting with a fever it began with some variation of rapidly progressive cognitive decline, or mood changes, or muscle spasms. One case even started with difficulty walking.”


“That’s incredible,” Jack said while shaking his head. “I’ve never heard of anything like this or even close to it.”


“Nor have I,” Bob said. “That’s the point. That’s why I’m relieved you two are here in case I’m missing something.”


For several beats, everyone just stared at one another. There was something distinctively unnerving about the sudden appearance of multiple cases of rapidly progressive dementia in relatively young people. It was Melanie who broke the ice by speaking up. “I hate to spoil the party, but we have to get underway with the two autopsies. Maybe I shouldn’t have, but I scheduled office visits to start at half past one. So, I need to show our visitors where the gowns and aprons are stored.”


“Don’t bother,” Bob replied. “I’ll show them while I get mine. You go ahead and wheel Ethan Jameson out from the cooler. The Stapletons and I will move him over onto the autopsy table once we’re suited up.”


“Consider it done,” Melanie said agreeably, turning around and heading in the opposite direction.


Inside the changing room, Bob opened the appropriate cabinets for Laurie and Jack to take what they wanted. As they were doing so, Melanie appeared in the doorway.


“We’ve got a serious problem!” Melanie announced in a dramatic voice, emphasizing each word.


“What’s up?” Bob asked. He was in the process of tying his surgical gown, but he stopped in the middle of making his bow. Knowing Melanie as well as he did, he sensed immediately she was dead serious.


“Ethan Jameson’s body is gone.”


“What are you talking about?” Bob questioned. The idea was so preposterous that he thought she had to be making an inappropriate joke, which wasn’t like her.


“Jameson’s body is gone,” Melanie repeated in a more forceful 
manner. “It’s gone. It’s not in the cooler. Stanley Kramer is still in there, but Jameson is gone. His gurney is empty.”


As if he didn’t believe what he was hearing, Bob quickly finished tying his bow, then literally pushed past Melanie. Walking around the autopsy table to reach the cooler’s door, he pulled it open. Immediately he could see that one of the two gurneys was empty. He lifted the edge of the sheet covering the remaining body and immediately recognized Stanley Kramer, the previous night’s death. Letting the sheet go, he stepped back out into the autopsy room, closing the cooler’s door behind himself and turned to look at Melanie.


“What possibly could have happened?” he questioned with a confused expression.


“I’ve no idea whatsoever,” Melanie said. “It was there when I wheeled Stanley Kramer in last night.”


“Did you hear anything from the Jamesons yesterday? Particularly from the mother, Arlene?” Bob asked as his mind frantically searched for some plausible explanation. Mrs. Jameson had been persistent in her interest to get the body released so funeral plans could be finalized.


“Not a word,” Melanie said. From her expression it was obvious she was just as confused as he by this unexpected development.


“When you got here this morning, was anything amiss?” Bob asked. “Anything at all? How about the doors? Were they locked?”


“There was nothing unusual,” Melanie said. “And yes, the front doors were locked as they always are. The one thing I didn’t check was the freight door. I’ll do that right away!” Without another word, she left the room.


Turning to Jack and Laurie, who were now outfitted in surgical gowns and leaning up against the autopsy table, Bob said, “I’m so 
sorry about this weird, unexpected situation. I can assure you that nothing like this has ever occurred in the six years I’ve been county coroner. I’m at a total loss of how it could have happened.”


“Don’t be concerned on our behalf,” Laurie said. “We’ve had a few mix-ups about disappearing bodies at the OCME, so it happens. Take your time. We can entertain ourselves while you do what you have to do.”


“Any chance one of the local funeral homes came and got it because of mixed messages?” Jack asked.


“There’s only one local funeral home, called Ames and Sons,” Bob said. “But they don’t have access. At least I don’t think they have access. You’re right, though, I should check.” He got out his phone and as he put through a call, Melanie returned to report the freight dock was locked up tight.


Bob’s conversation with the funeral home was quick and to the point. They’d not had anything to do with Ethan Jameson as of yet and were awaiting a call from Bob to initiate their involvement. They hadn’t been in contact with the Jameson family since the day of Ethan’s death. Terminating the call, Bob asked Melanie if she’d quickly check the office’s tiny pharmacy, which was in a locked metal cabinet in a locked storeroom off the procedure room.


“Good idea,” Melanie said as she again quickly exited the autopsy room.


“If someone was raiding your office for drugs, why would they take a body?” Laurie asked out of curiosity. It didn’t make sense to her.


“I have no idea,” Bob admitted. “I’m truly at loss here and grasping at straws.”


“I’ve got a different take,” Jack said. “It seems to me the only reason for the body to have disappeared would be to keep it from 
being autopsied.” As if it were yesterday, Jack could remember an OCME case involving a xenograft liver transplant patient where the transplanters didn’t want it to be discovered. Similar to this occasion, the body had seemingly vanished into thin air. Solving that complicated case had ultimately required a trip to Africa, of all places.


“That’s an interesting thought,” Bob said, giving the idea its due. “Are you thinking the pest control people might not want us to figure out what the particular pesticide was involved?”


“Something like that,” Jack said with a shrug. “But perhaps I’d be thinking more about the family. Do you know if either the mother or the father have any particularly strong feelings, religious or otherwise, against autopsies?”


“The father is a drunk and has been a drunk since the Bennet Shoe factory closed,” Bob said. “So, he’s not capable of pulling off anything like this. And the mother is the quintessential grandmotherly type who wouldn’t be capable, either.”


At that point Melanie returned. “No problem with our pharmacy,” she reported. “There wasn’t even any evidence of someone trying to get into the room. And I looked around a bit more in the waiting room and the exam rooms. I don’t see any evidence whatsoever of anyone being in here.”


“Do you want to put off doing the autopsy on the body that is still here?” Laurie asked. “We don’t care when we do it, do we, Jack?”


“Actually, I do have a preference,” Jack said. “I’d like to do it this morning since I don’t know what time Warren and his girlfriend might arrive. I’m assuming it’s going to be this afternoon, but I want to be available and at the house.”


“Good point,” Laurie said.


“I’d like to get it done as well,” Bob said. “Particularly with 
patients scheduled to start at one thirty. But let me first make a quick call to Bill Hargrove and report we had a body theft. I’d also like to check whether or not anything at all out of the ordinary was seen last night. I know he has his team check on the clinic every night. My sense is that the police need to be involved because this unexpected body disappearance must have some overarching significance that we’re completely missing, especially with it happening in the middle of these confusing and rapidly progressive dementia cases.”


“Do you think they are related?” Laurie questioned.


“I’ve no idea,” Bob admitted. He threw up his hands in frustration. “Something like this is not supposed to happen here in our isolated Shangri-la. Let me apologize to you guys. I’m sorry! Truly I am.”


“Don’t be silly,” Laurie said. “We certainly don’t blame you, and we’re perfectly happy to take it in stride.”


“Besides,” Jack admitted. “I kinda like conundrums, and this has the makings of a good one.”




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 15


Thursday, July 24, 10:41 
a.m
.


Essex Falls, New York


“Please accept my apologies yet again for this strange situation,” Bob said as he, Jack, and Laurie stepped out of the changing room back into the autopsy room. Finally, they were about to commence the autopsy on Stanley Kramer, and all four of them were suited up in surgical gowns with overlying yellow, impermeable aprons, surgical gloves, and face shields. Bob put his single lens reflex camera on the dissecting table.


“No need for apologies,” Laurie assured their host. “As chief medical examiner in NYC, I am no longer surprised by the strange snafus that can occur in and around morgues.”


“But here in Essex Falls?” Bob questioned with a definite sense of disbelief.


“Anywhere!” Laurie assured him. “I’m convinced it goes with the territory. There’ll be an explanation, despite how incomprehensible it seems at the moment.”


“And the explanation will come as a surprise, something you never thought about,” Jack added.


“I hope you are correct,” Bob said. “And I hope the reveal happens sooner rather than later because I’m going to lose sleep over this.”


Melanie, who was equivalently outfitted, brought the gurney with Stanley Kramer’s body out from the cooler. She removed the sheet and then positioned the gurney alongside the autopsy table. Bob went to the head and Jack to the foot. On the count of three, they lifted the corpse onto the table, while Melanie wheeled away the gurney. The body was a strikingly pale fifty-year-old man about six feet tall with a few extra pounds around the midriff but otherwise in reasonably good physical condition, with defined musculature of his arms. When Jack commented on this, Bob agreed.


“He was quite active, seemingly healthy, and reasonably athletic,” Bob said. “Prior to this terminal event, I’d only seen him once professionally and that was years ago. He even very occasionally showed up at our pickup basketball games and would have been a better player if he’d come more often. But he was a hard worker before this sudden episode of rapid cognitive decline.”


“What kind of work did he do?” Jack asked as his trained eye took in all the details that were apparent, the mermaid tattoo on his left forearm and mild varicosities on his lower limbs.


“A plumber who’d learned his trade in the US Navy,” Bob said. “He’d worked for the Bennet Shoe factory up until the day it closed, but then was one of the few people able to start his own business in town and remain living here. As such, he’s been a distinct asset in all regards. We are going to miss him on multiple levels.”


“And as the only doctor in town, I’m assuming you’d seen him as a patient when this current problem arose,” Laurie said.


“Of course,” Bob responded. “His wife, Darlene, brought Stanley in almost two weeks ago.”


“It was more like a week and a half ago,” Melanie offered.


“Whatever,” Bob said with a bit of apparent frustration at being corrected. But then he quickly apologized. “Anyway, she’d found him wandering in their backyard confused and seemingly lost.”


“Whoa!” Jack said. “So, the problem of cognitive decline started like a bolt from the blue?”


“Well, not exactly,” Bob said. “When Darlene brought him, she said she’d been noticing mounting problems for about a week with Stanley, but the symptoms were initially rather subtle, such as difficulty sleeping, irritability, and forgetfulness. But on that particular day it had become undeniable that something was definitely wrong, and whatever it was, it was getting worse.”


“So, what did you do?” Jack asked.


“I examined him, obviously,” Bob said. “Since I’d seen almost a dozen similar cases, I’d become worried I was confronting some kind of strange, possibly contagious outbreak. Similar to the other cases I’d seen, the only positive findings involved the nervous system: definite confusion and a total inability to count backward, which is a test I use as a quick screen for mental capacity. I also noticed some superficial muscle spasms in his arms and legs as well as some very mild ataxia. Anyway, there was nothing I could hang my hat on to suggest a specific diagnosis, so I sent him off to the Clinton Hospital for an emergency MRI brain scan and a neurology consult, which we can get once a week up here in the sticks.”


“Did the MRI show anything?” Laurie questioned.


“Nothing,” Bob said. “It was read as normal and was confirmed by a second radiologist in Saratoga Springs.”


“What was the neurologist’s impression?” Laurie asked.


“Same as with the other patients,” Bob said. “He was diagnosed probable early Alzheimer’s, but at this point I can’t help but question it. If it was early Alzheimer’s, why did he and the two others die so damn quickly, and why did the first two patients test negatively when I sent their samples to NMS Labs? And the other live patients I currently have with similar stories are all doing progressively poorly. Alzheimer’s patients don’t go downhill so rapidly or die in a week or two.


“Anyway, I’m mystified and a little scared. This situation is just like that mysterious episode of fatal brain disease in New Brunswick, Canada, reported in the 
New York Times
 in 2024 only it’s happening here, in my Essex Falls, during my watch. I’m the only doctor in town and I’m supposed to keep people healthy. Up in Canada they thought they were dealing with a possible weird outbreak of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, but the tests came back negative. Here we think we’re dealing with an outbreak of early-onset Alzheimer’s, but the tests have come back negative. Up in Canada the cases mysteriously stopped, but so far that doesn’t seem to be what is happening here, so we have to figure this out before more people get sick and more people die.”


“Well, let’s see what we can learn from this autopsy,” Jack said. “Which brings us to the question of how you would like to handle it. Do you want to do the autopsy while Laurie and I watch and comment, or would you prefer one of us to do it, and you ask questions as we go along? It’s your call.”


“Hmm,” Bob said. “That hadn’t occurred to me. Do you folks have a preference? I’m not sure I do.”


“We think it’s your call,” Laurie said. “Of course, it could also be some mixture of the two.”


“After giving it a quick thought, I believe it would be best for 
one of you to go ahead and do it rather than I,” Bob said. “Maybe you could talk it through as you go along, so I understand your reasoning for each step. It will be far more efficient that way. Besides, I’d feel incredibly nervous under the watchful eyes of two experts.”


“We’d be easy on you,” Jack said with a laugh. “But we’re happy to do it. My suggestion is for Laurie to be in the driver’s seat, as she’s been starved of autopsies ever since she became chief.”


“Fine with me,” Bob said.


“Laurie?” Jack questioned. “Are you okay being the prosector?”


“Is the sky blue?” Laurie humorously retorted. Immediately taking the lead, she went through a rapid but complete external examination of the body, verbally noting all irregularities, scars, and tattoos. This portion required rolling the body on its side to inspect the dorsal surface. She then inspected the inside of the mouth and the condition of the teeth, describing out loud her thought processes.


“So much for the external examination,” she said. She then asked Melanie for one of the scalpels that had been laid out along with the other instruments. “I’ll be using the typical Y-shaped autopsy incision,” Laurie announced before doing so, cutting from the points of both shoulders, meeting at the midline, and then incising through the skin all the way down to the pubis so that the omentum and a portion of the intestines were visible. “Okay, how about you guys create the skin flaps on either side of the thorax while I do the same up to the base of the neck. My idea here is to progress rather rapidly through this part of the autopsy unless we encounter unexpected pathology. Obviously, considering the history, the most critical part will be when we open the cranium to expose the brain. Is that okay with you, Bob, or would you prefer I go slower?”


“It’s fine with me,” Bob said. “I’ve read about doing autopsies but 
I’ve never seen a professional do one. If there’s something I don’t understand, don’t worry, I’ll certainly speak up.”


As Laurie suggested, she worked quickly but carried on a running commentary as she did so, especially when she got to the point of using the bone shears to cut through the ribs to expose the heart and lungs. She then increased her commentary as she went through the entire process of exposing the heart, clamping off various vessels before stopping to draw blood samples from the left atrium. While she was at it, she took other biological samples from the eyes, gall bladder, and kidneys.


After finishing with the thorax, having removed the heart and the lungs and examined them in detail, particularly the coronary arterial system, she went on to the abdomen, first removing the esophagus, stomach, and intestines and showing Bob the best way to open them up and rinse them out to examine their full length.


“I’m impressed with how fast you are able to do this,” Bob commented as he watched Laurie “run the intestines,” meaning check their entire length inch by inch for any abnormality. She did find some polyps, which she sampled.


“It comes with practice,” Laurie explained. “I’ve never stopped to try to figure out just how many autopsies I’ve done over the years. It’s a lot even though I haven’t been doing that many recently. And Jack has done even more than I, a lot more. He’s a glutton for punishment when it comes to autopsies. He does more than anyone else at the OCME, hands down.”


“That’s because I make it a point to arrive early every day and cherry-pick the best cases,” Jack explained from where he was standing over at the autopsy table.


After finishing with the examination of the GI system, Laurie and Bob left the laundry-like sink and returned to the autopsy table. 
She went on to examine and remove all the abdominal organs except the pancreas, which she left in place after carefully palpating it and taking a tissue sample, continuing to explain every step as she went along. Each individual organ was weighed, meticulously examined, and dissected. The only abnormalities she encountered were an enlarged spleen, which she thought was otherwise normal in appearance, and a single stone in the gall bladder. Then, taking a new scalpel, Laurie carried out a neck dissection to expose the thyroid gland and carotid arteries.


“That part’s done,” Laurie said, straightening up to stretch her back. “Any questions before I close up?”


“I don’t think so,” Bob said. He glanced at the clock, amazed at how fast Laurie had been able to proceed despite her ongoing commentary. He then watched with equal respect as she returned the organs to their approximate original locations, replaced the sternal flap, and then very rapidly sewed up the body using a running suture.


“All right,” Laurie said, hyperextending her back for a moment before placing the needle holder back on the instrument tray. She rubbed her gloved hands together in anticipation. “Now for payoff time, at least for this autopsy: the brain. Do you have a head block?”


“Yes, we do,” Bob said. “Let me get it.” He disappeared for a moment into the changing room.


“We’ve never bothered to use the head block,” Melanie explained.


“It makes the removal of the brain at bit easier,” Laurie said.


Bob reappeared almost immediately with a sizable block of wood. While Jack lifted Stanley Kramer’s head and shoulders with Melanie lending a hand, Laurie inserted it under his neck, adjusting his head up at a forty-five-degree angle. “There are a number of 
ways of removing the brain, but I’ll show you how we generally do it at the OCME,” she said. Then, explaining as she did it, she took a scalpel and made an incision from ear to ear around the back of the patient’s head. Using the same scalpel and a pair of forceps, she created a large flap of scalp, which she folded over the face, exposing the entire boney top of the cranium.


Without even being asked, Melanie handed Laurie the electric Stryker saw, which made a high-pitched raucous sound, especially as it cut into bone. “You have to be very careful along the temples,” Laurie explained, nearly shouting. “The bone is significantly thinner in those areas, and it is easy to damage the underlining dura or, worse yet, the brain itself.” At that point everyone was glad they were wearing face shields, as tiny bits of bone flew in all directions.


After having circled the head 360 degrees, Laurie handed Melanie the Stryker saw and then carefully teased off the boney skullcap with her gloved hands, exposing the brain’s dural cover. “So far so good,” she said as she again picked up the scalpel and forceps. “Now I’ll make a longitudinal cut through the dura from one end of the opening to the other, followed by transverse, relaxing incisions to expose the entire dorsal surface of the brain.” The moment she finished, she pulled her hands back and straightened upright, so all four of them could look down at the brain.


“Whoa!” Jack murmured. “That brain appears a bit worse for wear. What do you think, Laurie?”


“I’d have to agree, although I’m not sure if my mind is playing tricks on me,” Laurie said. “I wish I had a known normal brain photo right here for comparison. It’s subtle, but I think it’s not normal. Let’s be sure to get some pictures even at this stage to compare.”


“Sure,” Bob said agreeably. He picked up the camera and took a number of photos, just as he’d been doing during the entire case.


“With as many brains as I see, I have a good idea of what a normal one looks like,” Jack said. “And this one looks abnormal to me, not overly so, but I’d say consistent with an early Alzheimer’s brain. I get the impression that some of the sulci, or the valleys between the convolutions, are more open than usual.”


Once Bob had finished with his in situ photos, Jack pointed to which sulci he was referring to, namely those along the sides of the brain just above the ears. “Right along here is what I’m talking about. And on top of that, I sense that the convolutions, or gyri, themselves are flatter than normal.”


“I certainly haven’t seen the number of brains you guys have,” Bob said. “So, I’ll take your word for it. But after we’re done here, I can show you the photos I took of the brains of the two other cases, so you can compare them.”


“That would be helpful,” Laurie said. “But let’s move on with this case by getting the brain out of the cranium, so we can examine it closer. There’s a bit of technique involved.”


“Tell me about it,” Bob said. “It’s been a struggle for me on more than one occasion.”


“The best way to start is to work your fingers under the frontal lobes,” Laurie began as she demonstrated. “And then blindly lift the olfactory bulbs off the cribriform plate. Following that step, you go back to working around the edges of the brain to isolate and cut the various cranial nerves and carotid arteries.” Laurie quickly followed her own directives. “Next go back and lift the occipital lobe to expose the fibrous tentorium separating it from the cerebellum and transect it.”


“What do you use to cut the tentorium?” Bob asked.


“These long-curved dissecting scissors that Melanie just handed me,” Laurie said, holding them up for a moment before using them 
on the tentorium. “And now for the last step. Carefully push the cerebellum forward with the flat of your hand to get the same scissors down as far as you can into the cervical canal to cut the spinal cord. You want the cut to be as low as you can manage.”


“You make it look so easy,” Bob complained.


“It is easy once you get the hang of it,” Laurie said, handing the scissors back to Melanie. “Now for the final maneuver, we have to go back under the frontal lobe with your right hand and work the tips of the fingers down into the ventral side of the cervical canal. And now, supporting the brain stem, lift the brain out of the cranium.” As she spoke, she gently hoisted Stanley Kramer’s brain out of its boney sanctuary and carefully placed it on a baking sheet Melanie extended toward her. Laurie then took the pan down to the foot of the autopsy table, where she placed it so all four of them could have direct access to it.


Jack, having brought a bread knife from the dissecting table, bent over and proceeded to make a series of through-and-through coronal slices. “Hmmm,” he voiced while studying several of these. “To my eye I’m seeing more hints of early Alzheimer’s disease,” he said, straightening up. Using the very tip of the knife as a pointer, he motioned toward a slightly shaded area beneath the floor of the lateral ventricles on a number of the slices. “This is the hippocampus area. Its cross section is supposed to be more flat or oblong than round. To me it’s looking round. Would you all call it round or flat?”


Bob laughed. “I’ll take your word for it. It’s so indistinct and obviously a judgment call.”


The others agreed, admitting there was room for interpretation.


“Well, I think it’s more round than flat,” Jack said, “meaning, for me, another suggestion of early Alzheimer’s.”


“Clinically I was also convinced,” Bob said. “But I’ll be willing 
to make a bet, NMS Labs are going to report it as Alzheimer’s negative if this case is like the other two, which it has clinically matched. The problem is, we’re going to have to wait for NMS Labs and that’s going to be more than a week for certain.”


“We haven’t been able to do the autopsy on Ethan Jameson with his body disappearing,” Jack said. “The obvious result is that no one is going to be driving his specimens down to the OCME like we planned, at least for the time being. But there’s no reason it couldn’t be done with Stanley Kramer’s samples. If we did and with an ounce of pressure from Laurie, we’d get results overnight. We could even have microscopic slides rapidly made by our superb histology team. Who makes the slides for you here?”


“Both Melanie and I give it a go,” Bob said. “We’re not very good at it, but we’re getting better.”


“As you can imagine, ours are first rate,” Jack said. “I presume you made slides of the other patients’ brains.”


“Of course we did.”


“Obviously we’ll want to see them,” Laurie chimed in. “And if samples from this autopsy are being sent down to the OCME, we should include some of the brain slides from the previous cases and direct them to Christine.”


“Excellent idea,” Jack responded.


“Who is Christine?” Bob asked.


“Dr. Christine Skinner is our relatively new neuropathologist,” Laurie said.


“What about the other various tests from the previous autopsies?” Jack asked. “Do you have all the results? What are the names and the ages, by the way?”


“Harold Barker, age fifty-two, and Susan Hughes, age thirty-nine,” Bob said.


“Wow, that is young for Alzheimer’s,” Laurie said. “This certainly is a scary situation. How about the other nine patients? Are they all on the young side?”


“Most would be considered young for Alzheimer’s,” Bob said. “Only two are over sixty-five. As for tests on Barker and Hughes, all we have available at the moment is that they are negative for Alzheimer’s.”


“So, we are back to considering whether to send Stanley Kramer’s samples down to New York City,” Jack said, his voice reflecting some impatience.


“What do you think, Melanie?” Bob asked. “Can we find someone to drive down to the city this afternoon?”


“I should think so,” Melanie said. “It is the middle of the summer. People aren’t all that busy. I’d be happy to take the job myself if you could do without me for an afternoon.”


“Hell, no!” Bob said with a shade of humor. “I’m not facing an afternoon of patients without you. But otherwise, I agree. It shouldn’t be that difficult to find someone. Carol might even be willing to do it if she can combine it with a stopover at Macy’s.


“All right, here’s the plan,” Bob continued. “We’ll finish here and clean up, and then we’ll head down to Ted’s Diner for a deserved lunch. Over burgers, we’ll decide the next step.”




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 16


Thursday, July 24, 12:25 
p.m
.


Essex Falls, New York


Jack and Laurie were thrilled to return to Ted’s Diner, and walking in with Dr. Bob, as he was generally known around town, was like walking in with a movie star. Just about everyone in the restaurant came up to say hello, including Ted himself. It turned out the elderly man with the not-so-clean apron manning the grill and the fryer was none other than Ted. Also, one of the older women servers in the matching black dresses turned out to be his wife, Charlotte.


“I’m impressed with the service you get here,” Laurie said after Charlotte had seated them at the only freestanding four-top table in the restaurant and taken their drink orders. The table was situated in an alcove at the very front of the restaurant looking out at Main Street. Apparently it was a table reserved by Ted for the town’s celebrities, like Dr. Bob.


“Ted and Charlotte’s fifth child had some medical issues,” Bob 
explained. “They ended up having to spend more time with me than they would have preferred.”


“Bob is being much too modest as usual,” Melanie said. “He managed their child through a very difficult and serious episode of leukemia, eventually achieving a total remission.”


“That’s truly wonderful, Bob,” Laurie said with sincere respect.


“Well, you do what you can,” Bob said offhandedly while blushing. Then: “What’s everybody going to have? My treat!”


They all ordered hamburgers with several portions of French fries for the table.


“Laurie, I want to thank you for walking us through the autopsy this morning,” Bob said the moment the waitress left. He had to talk loudly to compete with the overall noise level in the old diner with its tile floor and embossed metal ceiling. “I certainly could have benefitted from such a tutorial before I did my first autopsy. Unfortunately, I didn’t know what I didn’t know.”


“Autopsies generally are not difficult,” Laurie said. “The important thing is to be thorough and consistent.”


“I get it,” Bob said.


“Let’s talk about neurodegenerative disease,” Jack suggested. “Or is it too noisy in here? Or is it too depressing over lunch? What does everybody think?”


“I don’t mind,” Bob said. “Do you mean Alzheimer’s disease in particular?”


“No, I’d like to discuss neurodegenerative disease in general, of which Alzheimer’s is a prime example. I would have signed Stanley Kramer out as probable Alzheimer’s disease pending further testing, but you have said that today’s case looked like and clinically resembled your two previous cases, Barker and Hughes, and both 
of them tested negative. In my book that means Stanley is probably going to test negative, too, wouldn’t you all agree?”


Everyone nodded.


“So where does that leave us?” Jack questioned. “I’d have to say ‘up-the-river-without-a-paddle.’ Then, looking directly at Bob he added: “Tell me again! In the 
New York Times
 article you cited involving the mysterious outbreak up in New Brunswick, Canada, what brain disease were they worried about?”


“Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, at least initially,” Bob said.


“Whoa,” Jack said. “Meaning mad cow disease, which certainly caused one hell of a stir when it popped up in England some forty years ago. What was the ultimate outcome in New Brunswick?”


“Strangely enough, the New Brunswick cases ended up testing negative for mad cow disease, similar to our cases testing negative for Alzheimer’s. Ultimately and luckily, the New Brunswick outbreak then just petered out and stopped over several months. Unfortunately, not before quite a number of people sickened and died.”


“It’s encouraging that it at least stopped,” Jack said. “So, there was no ultimate diagnosis made in that episode.”


“Certainly not when the article was written,” Bob said. “And I never heard any follow-up, which I’ve looked for, so I guess, no, a final diagnosis wasn’t ever made.”


“Too bad, because it seems we’re facing a remarkably similar situation,” Jack said. “The difference is that here it doesn’t appear like whatever is going on is stopping, at least not yet.”


“It’s definitely not stopping,” Melanie said. “As I’ve mentioned, two of the patients scheduled for this afternoon have some of the same initial symptoms as the first dozen, a mix of muscle spasms, memory loss, gait problems, and personality changes, and both 
these new patients are particularly young. One is still in his twenties, the other in her thirties. I won’t be at all surprised if later on today we have two more significantly younger cases to add to our series.”


“All the more reason we have to come up with a diagnosis,” Jack said. “People in their twenties don’t develop Alzheimer’s.”


“That’s not true,” Laurie interjected. “I remember reading that a nineteen-year-old boy in China was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s a year or two ago.”


“You are joking,” Jack said, staring at Laurie.


“I’m not,” Laurie said.


“Well, if it’s true, it’s certainly an outlier,” Jack said. “Besides, according to NMS Labs, we’re not dealing here with Alzheimer’s, so it doesn’t matter. But we are dealing with a neurodegenerative disease. That’s perfectly clear considering the symptoms the patients are experiencing and especially with our having just had an opportunity to look at Stanley Kramer’s brain. And what we could see grossly, which I admit was on the subtle side, will undoubtedly be more pronounced when we get to look at the histology.”


“So, what’s the point you are trying to make?” Bob asked, staring at Jack, as were Laurie and Melanie.


“My point is that we have to go back to basics if we are going to have any luck solving this current outbreak of dementia and give up trying to put a convenient, familiar name, like Alzheimer’s or mad cow disease, on it. My sixth sense is telling me it’s neither, considering its unusually rapid course.”


“What do you mean ‘go back to basics’?” Laurie questioned.


Just as Jack opened his mouth to explain, the waitress appeared, and she was defying gravity. Somehow she was carrying four hamburgers, two large French fries, and a generous container of Heinz 
ketchup. Wasting no time and needing little help, she was able to distribute the hamburgers and set the ketchup and French fries onto the table. After asking if there was anything else anyone wanted at the moment and getting noes for an answer, she took her leave.


“I’ll let us all enjoy our burgers,” Jack said before taking his first welcome bite and enjoying it thoroughly. Just a few minutes later, after inhaling his hamburger, he pushed his empty plate away and leaned forward, forearms on the table so he didn’t have to speak so loudly in the noisy environment. “While you eat, I’ll carry on where I left off. I’m sure all of you are aware that it is generally believed that all neurodegenerative diseases, including those that are being seen here in Essex Falls, are caused by a rather peculiar protein culprit, called a prion.”


Jack purposely paused and stared at each of his lunch companions in turn. Everyone kept chewing, staring back at him, hoping one of the others would say something. He knew that no one felt all that comfortable talking about prions, even himself for that matter. Although the name had been devised a bit more than forty years previously by taking the first two letters of the word 
protein
 and combining them with the last four letters of the word 
infection,
 he knew it was still a controversial or even contentious subject, since its basic tenet—of an inanimate protein being infectious—was so revolutionary. Prior to the advent of the concept of prions, it was an accepted tenet of biology that for something to be infectious it had to involve genetic material either in the form of DNA or RNA and reside in a virus, a bacterium, or a fungus.


“I’ve heard the term but I couldn’t tell you much about it,” Melanie admitted when Jack looked at her directly. “So, you think they are causing this outbreak we are seeing here in Essex Falls?”


“The current theory is that all neurodegenerative diseases are caused by infectious prions,” Jack said.


“All I know about prions is that they are proteins mostly associated with the brain with an unknown function,” Bob said. “The problem with them is that they can go haywire and start interrupting brain function, which happens in Alzheimer’s disease. They cause extensive nerve cell death and ultimately death of the individual.”


“They are definitely proteins,” Laurie added. “Infectious proteins, which means that somehow they have the ability to cause their normal, noninfectious brethren to become infectious and form fibrils inside neurons and plaques outside, and it happens in an exponential fashion.”


“All true,” Jack said. “Unfortunately, I’m afraid we are a case of the blind leading the blind. My sense is that none of us know much about prions, which is obviously an enormous handicap if we are trying to understand, diagnose, and hopefully stop an outbreak of what must be a prion disease. Let’s think about what we do know. Laurie, you are first up. Tell us more about how prions work their black magic.”


“I wish our neuropathologist, Christine, was here,” Laurie said. “She could fill us in a lot better than I.”


“True, but she’s not here,” Jack said. “Maybe we can get her to come for a night or two, or in a worst-case scenario, we can organize a Zoom. In the meantime, let’s pool what we do know. You said that prions are infectious proteins. Tell the group what you mean.”


“All protein molecules are long chains of specific amino acids held together by peptide bonds,” Laurie began, mimicking Jack by leaning forward to be better heard. “Because each protein is an invariable sequence of amino acids, each molecule ends up having a 
very specific physical shape, which is vitally important as it is a protein’s three-dimensional shape that determines its function, like acting as a catalyst for a vital chemical reaction. Normal prions are unique proteins that are necessary for the function of the neurons in our brains but which can be coaxed to assume a nonfunctioning shape even though this nonfunctioning shape is the exact same molecule in terms of its amino acid structure. This aberrant shaped prion has the ability, when it comes in contact with the normal prion, to cause the normal prion to change its shape. This newly reshaped form can go on to alter another normal prion creating a chain reaction, or it can combine with other misshapen molecules to form fibrils and amyloid plaques. Currently the thought is that these fibrils and plaques ultimately interrupt brain function and kill the neuron.”


“Well said,” Jack complimented and even clapped quietly. “These bad protein prions, once they get on the scene, cause the normal, good prions to change to a dysfunctional state, which eventually kills the neuron, causing a progressive neurogenerative disease. So, let’s review. We’re dealing here with an unknown neurodegenerative disease caused by a particular infectious prion. Okay, now let’s talk about transmission. Bob and Melanie, this is your area of expertise being out there in the clinical trenches, so to speak. What can you tell us? Have you any thoughts, knowing the patients and their families as well as you do?”


Bob and Melanie exchanged a quick, mildly nervous glance after which Melanie responded, “I’m not sure exactly what you mean by ‘transmission’.”


“Simply, how do we think these people have gotten this disease,” Jack explained. “We have to figure that out if we are going to have any chance of stopping this outbreak, if it is an outbreak. For the 
moment we are going to consider it an outbreak. My understanding is that all twelve cases and potentially the two more you will be seeing today have all occurred in the last month or so and they all live here, in Essex Falls.”


“Yes, that’s correct,” Melanie said. “Obviously we’ve had our share of Alzheimer’s patients over the years, but seeing this many with such similar, rapidly developing symptoms is definitely new for us, especially with three progressing to death within weeks.”


“It’s shocking, the more I think about it,” Bob added.


“I guess the idea of how they’ve gotten this disease hadn’t occurred to me,” Melanie said, “but I suppose it should have. What I’m remembering from courses I’ve taken over the years is that the three main methods of getting a disease are ‘acquired,’ ‘familial,’ and ‘sporadic.’ We can immediately eliminate the ‘sporadic’ because that requires a very specific random mutation and the chances of that happening suddenly in this many people is almost zero. We can also eliminate familial because only two of the twelve patients are related in any way and that’s by marriage, not by genetics. So, we are left with it being acquired.”


“My thoughts exactly,” Jack said. “Mad cow disease was acquired by eating cows infected with a specific infectious prion. Could something like that be involved here in Essex Falls? These patients of yours had to have gotten their infectious prions from someplace.”


“I can’t imagine,” Bob said. “You’re talking about someone having an infected herd of cattle.”


“Something like that,” Jack said. “But I don’t think it has to be necessarily beef. Maybe it could be pork or even chicken. My guess is that all live animals, particularly mammals, have prions. We’ll have to ask Christine if it’s possible for other species’ prions to be 
infectious for us humans. They must be, or at least some, because those were definitely cow prions that killed all those people in England during the mad cow outbreak.”


“I suppose Melanie and I can start asking those infected families about their eating habits,” Bob said. “We can find out if they share any unique similarities.”


“What about wild deer?” Laurie asked. “I’ve heard they can be carriers. When is deer hunting season here?”


“That’s not until the fall,” Bob said.


“I suppose it could be deer meat coming out of someone’s freezer,” Laurie suggested. And then she shook her head in discouragement. “Narrowing it down to an ‘acquired’ infection is still much too broad to be helpful. There’re just too many possibilities.”


“But we still have to try,” Jack said. “Let’s move on to location. Has there been any thought given to where the individual cases occurred?”


“What do you mean?” Bob questioned, wrinkling his forehead. “They’ve all been here, in Essex Falls.”


“That I understand,” Jack said. “But what I’m asking is where in Essex Falls. The most famous epidemiological case in the history of medicine was John Snow’s triumph in London. He was the doctor who figured out that a mid-nineteenth-century cholera epidemic that was raging in the city wasn’t coming from ‘bad air’ as most people thought but rather from one specific water well, and by shutting it down, he stopped the outbreak.”


“Okay, fair enough,” Bob said. “We’ll get a map of the town and locate all twelve cases and even add the two I’m seeing today if need be. Unfortunately, I can’t imagine it’s going to helpful. I already know that all the original dozen live here in town and the town is obviously not that big.”


“Okay,” Jack said, raising his hands as if surrendering. “I’ve said my piece. You are all excused now.” Everyone laughed, including Jack. “If everyone is finished with lunch, I want to get back to the Hiram House because my basketball buddy from the city, Warren, should be here any minute.”


“Can we take a few minutes to look at the brain slides from Barker and Hughes,” Laurie suggested. “Would you be okay with that, Jack?”


“I suppose,” Jack said. “If we make it fast.”


“Would that be a problem, Bob?” Laurie asked.


“No, not at all,” Bob said. “Only that I’ll be embarrassed. I’m afraid they aren’t very good. Melanie and I are just learning to make slides and use the staining properly.”


“What stains did you use?” Laurie asked.


“The recommended silver and Congo red,” Bob said. “But it’s not just the staining that’s the problem. It’s that the sections are too thick.”


“I’d still like to see them,” Laurie said as everyone got to their feet and then filed out of the diner into the warm late July afternoon.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 17


Thursday, July 24, 2:15 
p.m.


Hiram House


Hamilton County, New York


Jack turned off the main road that led to Indian River and onto the long, remarkably serpentine driveway leading to the Hiram House. He was driving faster than Laurie would have liked because he felt they were late getting back, and he was concerned that Warren might have already arrived. Jack wanted to be there to welcome him, mainly to see his initial response.


Their departure from the Bennet Clinic building had been delayed by Laurie’s wish to take a peek at the slides Bob and Melanie had made of Barker’s and Hughes’s brains. She’d been insistent on it. Unfortunately, Bob had misplaced both sets, and it took Melanie’s help and a bit of time to find them.


Although the sections were thicker than was ideal, Laurie was still able to discern a hint of the characteristic Alzheimer’s-like neurodegenerative changes in the temporal lobes of both patients. She found this shocking, knowing that the patients had only 
experienced neurological symptoms for a matter of weeks, not the usual months or year and that they had tested negative.


Then, while Laurie was busy with the slides, Melanie managed to locate a friend who was willing to drive Stanley Kramer’s specimens down to the OCME in Manhattan. The woman had been planning for some time to visit a cousin who lived in Greenwich, Connecticut, and been thrilled with the prospect of getting all travel expenses paid. She’d even been willing to leave as soon as the specimens were ready. Laurie immediately put in a call to George Fontworth to have him prepare for the specimens’ arrival late that afternoon, ensuring they were handled properly overnight. She also wanted George to give John DeVries in toxicology a heads-up that they were on their way.


“Hey, slow down!” Laurie called out as she grasped the handle on the car’s dashboard to steady herself to keep from being thrown side to side.


“Oops,” Jack said. As soon as Laurie spoke up, he recognized he was definitely driving too fast and slowed down. “Sorry! I didn’t realize how fast I was going. I’m a tad over eager to arrive, concerned that Warren already has.”


“What difference will it make if he has?” Laurie questioned. In this era of ubiquitous cell phones, she couldn’t imagine it would matter, especially for someone as resourceful as Warren Williams.


“Good point,” Jack conceded. “I shouldn’t be stressing out. It’s just that I want to hear his reaction when he first sees the setting and the house. He’s going to be bowled over from having spent the vast portion of his life within a twenty-block radius of the center of Harlem.”


“That might be part of it,” Laurie said, looking over at Jack and nodding. “But knowing you as well as I do, I think it’s more because 
you’re just generally pumped up by this dementia mystery, which doesn’t surprise me in the slightest.”


Jack glanced over at Laurie briefly and knitted his brows. “That’s a curious comment. What exactly do you mean?”


“I mean just what I said,” Laurie explained. “Your modus operandi is to constantly look for intellectual challenges to keep that mind of yours busy, and this current conundrum of Bob’s is just up your alley. I can tell you’re getting pulled in hook, line, and sinker. There’s no doubt there is a significant neurological mystery here in Essex Falls. On top of that, there’s the added attraction of the mysterious disappearance of a corpse. This all has to be irresistible for you.”


“Well, you’re right,” Jack admitted with a short laugh at being so transparent. “I suppose I am getting engrossed. It’s hard not to. Aren’t you?”


“I’m interested,” Laurie said. “And I will be fascinated to learn the resolution, whatever it turns out to be. But I’m here to try to relax and recover. Getting drawn into a work-related conundrum doesn’t fill the bill for me. Besides, I’m totally convinced that Bob has already done what he was supposed to do.”


“What do you mean?”


“He told us that he’d already reported in writing the cases of dementia he’s seen to the state health authorities. It is now up to the state to investigate using epidemiologists who are specifically trained to do it. I will be fascinated to hear what they come up with, but I’m more than happy to leave the problem in their capable hands. In the meantime, I for one am going to make a distinct effort to enjoy this vacation mecca by spending time at the pool, taking a hike or two up to a waterfall, and encouraging myself to do daily Pilates with Carol Nielson. I also wouldn’t mind spending some 
time in the Hiram library with that collection of old leather-bound nineteenth-century English novels. When I was in college they were my salvation.”


They rounded the final bend, and the house and lake came into view. There were no cars in sight and specifically no period Cadillac like the unique car Warren drove. Jack pulled the Cherokee up to the back of the house and stopped. He was relieved.


“Are you going to respond to what I just said?” Laurie asked.


“Okay, you’re right,” Jack admitted. “I do like challenges, and I’m definitely getting caught up in this current situation. I find it fascinating and disturbing in equal measure.”


“As if I couldn’t guess from our lunch today,” Laurie said with a laugh. “I’d be surprised if you weren’t, but I hope you don’t mind if I don’t quite share your enthusiasm.”


“Of course not,” Jack said. “And you’re right about Bob already doing what he is supposed to have done. But this prion stuff bothers me, probably partly because I don’t know as much about it as perhaps I should, and it’s just generally unnerving. But I think there’s more to this than meets the eye.”


“I’m not surprised,” Laurie said. “Indulge yourself! Meanwhile I’m going to put on my bathing suit and catch a few rays.” She opened the passenger side door, got out, and started heading into the house.


For a few minutes Jack watched her go before getting out of the car himself. He smiled as he followed her. He didn’t realize he was such an open book, although if anyone could read him, it was Laurie.


Once inside, Jack fixed himself an espresso using the high-end Italian machine in the butler’s pantry that looked more like a weapon system than a coffee maker. He then carried it along with 
his laptop into the library. Sitting in one of the two massive leather couches that faced each other, he made himself comfortable while making sure he had a view out the back of the house. He wanted to be able to see Warren the moment he arrived.


What he had in mind while he waited was to google 
prions
 and spend some time refreshing his memory of what he knew about them, which wasn’t a whole lot, and then to try to read up on the latest research while knowing the revolutionary concept was still not carved in stone. He was aware that a few holdouts questioned the concept of an infectious protein, believing a virus had to be involved but just couldn’t as of yet be isolated. At the same time Jack personally accepted the basic tenets and recognized that the doctor who’d initially championed the prion concept, Dr. Stanley Prusiner, had already won the Nobel Prize for his efforts almost thirty years previously.


But before Jack turned on his computer, he put in a call to Dr. Christine Skinner, the OCME’s neuropathologist. As he was waiting for her to come on the line, Laurie stuck her head into the library.


“I’m heading out to the pool if you’re looking for me,” she announced.


Jack flashed her a thumbs-up and then pointed toward his phone. “I’m giving Christine a call at the OCME,” he said. “I’m going to let her know Kramer’s samples are on their way.”


Laurie returned the thumbs-up sign and then added with a wave: “Say hello from me.” She then disappeared.


As he waited, Jack drummed his fingers on the closed MacBook in his lap. In his mind’s eye he pictured Christine Skinner, a slight, dainty woman the likes of which he wouldn’t have expected to be a forensic pathologist back when he trained in the specialty. Back 
then, and since its inception, it had been a male-dominated specialty. Times had certainly changed.


“Dr. Skinner here, can I help you?” a deep, commanding voice suddenly said. Jack was surprised. He’d never spoken with her on the phone and the voice didn’t match his mental image.


“Dr. Skinner,” Jack said, forging ahead. “It’s Jack Stapleton.”


“Dr. Stapleton, I’m surprised to hear from you,” Christine said. “Word has it that you and Dr. Montgomery are on a mini-vacation.”


“It’s Jack to you, Christine,” Jack corrected. “And yes, we are. But, as my wife just reminded me, forensic challenges find me.” After giving the hello from Laurie, Jack went on to give a short synopsis of the dementia problem. “Accordingly,” he continued, “some specimens from an autopsy we did this morning, including bodily fluids and brain samples, are on the way down to the OCME as we speak and should get there late this afternoon. There’s nothing that you need to do today as Dr. Fontworth is making arrangements for their arrival, but tomorrow we would like your input. We’d like to run an Alzheimer’s test for sure even though we expect it to be negative. On top of that, I wanted to ask you, is there any specific test for the presence of prions in body fluid?”


“Yes, there is a test available at the state lab,” Christine said. “It’s not your run-of-the-mill diagnostic test, but it is accurate. It has the strange name of RT-QuIC, which is quite a mouthful. But the test itself is quite sensitive and accurate, particularly with CJ disease.”


“Can you have that run that for us?”


“Yes, of course.”


“When can we expect to see some results?”


“That’s a problem,” Christine said. “It requires prolonged agitation, which is why it is called real-time quaking-induced conversion 
test. It takes up to ninety hours to make sure any and all the infectious prions have been documented.”


“Good God!” Jack complained. “Ninety hours! That’s almost four days. Can’t you do better?”


“I wish I could,” Christine said, and she sounded sincere.


“I didn’t mean that personally,” Jack said. “Don’t mind me! I just find it frustrating when tests take forever, especially when I’m trying to solve a real problem in real time.”


“I’ll see what I can do to speed it up a little by having it hand delivered,” Christine said.


“Before I let you go,” Jack said. “I’d like to ask what you might suggest I read to bolster my prion knowledge, which is pretty meager.”


“Wikipedia has a pretty good review article that’s kept up-to-date,” Christine said. “As far as the latest info is concerned, you could read a bit about these new ideas of treating prion disease using CRISPR to knock out the human prion gene. Weirdly enough, doing so doesn’t seem to hurt nerve cells’ function, which begs the question of why has the prion gene been selected for over the eons. No one seems to know, meaning there’s a lot left for science to discover when it comes to prions.”


“I just remembered something else I wanted to ask you,” Jack said. “From the mad cow episode in Great Britain, we know that infected beef can transmit prion disease to humans. What other animal sources are known? What about chicken, for instance?”


“Chickens have not yet been implicated,” Christine said. “But that’s not to say it won’t happen in the future. The only other food is pork and some ungulates like deer. Why, no one knows. It is especially strange that lamb has never been implicated even though scrapie, a disease of sheep, was the first known prion disease.”


“Seems that there is a lot for science to learn about prions,” Jack said.


“Truer words have never been spoken,” Christine responded.


After appropriate goodbyes, Jack terminated the call, and then sat there on the couch thinking about prions. The whole issue of a protein being infectious and causing a progressively debilitating disease leading to death was beyond scary. It was terrifying. He knew that proteins were the basic building blocks of life, so how could they possibly function as the source of death rather than life. It seemed too much like a terrifying science fiction plot.


With a heavy sigh, Jack opened his laptop and brought up the Wikipedia article titled “Prion” and began reading, but he didn’t get far. The crunching sound of car tires on gravel caught his attention, and the moment he looked up he saw Warren’s boatlike 1959, bright red, Cadillac Coupe Deville come around the final bend in the driveway and pull up alongside the similar colored but not so colorful Cherokee.


In response, Jack flipped his laptop closed, leaped up, and dashed out of the house. His timing was just about perfect as he came up on the driver’s side of the fastidiously restored Cadillac just as Warren was alighting from the car. After a quick embrace, Warren introduced Jada Thomas, who’d climbed out and walked around to the driver’s side to meet Jack.


As Jack shook Jada’s hand while welcoming her, he looked into her bottomless and expressive eyes set in a sculpted face that reminded him of a famous ancient Egyptian bust. She had a slim, athletic body and a unique hairstyle he was later to learn was called box braids. His immediate impression was that she was a perfect match for Warren and vice versa.


In Jack’s estimation Warren was one of the more impressive and 
personally generous persons he’d had the pleasure of knowing, and he also possessed an innate humanity and intelligence. Although he had never had the benefit of a formal higher education after high school, he’d been a voracious closet-reader from a tender age who remembered everything. He was also such a pleasure to watch on the basketball court that Jack frequently found himself envious of Warren’s inborn athleticism.


“I can’t wait for you guys to see this place,” Jack said with unbridled enthusiasm after the introductions, gesturing back toward the house and the lake. “It’s off the charts.”


“It is unique looking,” Warren agreed, gazing up at the house.


“It looks to me like a movie set for a horror movie,” Jada said.


“Interesting you say that,” Jack commented. “My wife, Laurie, said the same thing. Come on, let me show you the inside.”


“First, let us grab our stuff,” Warren said as he turned and headed to the rear of the car where he popped the trunk. Jada followed, and they both pulled out their backpacks, which they slung over their respective shoulders. Jada then picked up several large, white shopping bags with the name 
DeLuca’s Meats, Madison Avenue
, emblazoned on them. At the same time Warren lifted a case of Bud Light, which he balanced on a knee while retrieving a smaller brown bag. He then closed the trunk. “I didn’t want to run dry, isolated out here in Sherwood Forest,” he explained. “Plus, I brought some New York bagels.”


“It’s not that isolated,” Jack said with a laugh. He took the bagels from Warren and then relieved Jada of the shopping bags she was holding. “Whoa,” he added. “These are heavier than I expected. How many steaks are in here?”


“Jada generously bought enough for an army,” Warren said as everyone started out for the house’s rear entrance.


“Warren had said you were visiting some old friends, so I got extra,” Jada explained.


“That’s true,” Jack said. “Thank you. That’s very kind of you. With your okay, we’ll have a cookout tonight, and I’ll be pleased to invite over my old medical schoolmate and his wife.”


“You certainly have my okay,” Jada said with a smile.


“Where’s Laurie?” Warren questioned.


“She’s out at the pool,” Jack explained.


While he put the bag of New York steaks into the kitchen refrigerator and Warren went to put his beer into the even larger cooler in the butler’s pantry, Jack said, “As you’ll both see, this house is truly remarkable and in extraordinarily good condition, probably due to its isolation but also to its recent, tasteful renovation. It was built more than a hundred and fifty years ago by the founder of the shoe company that was responsible for the growth of the town itself, which is equally as impressive, as you’ll see. He built the house for his firstborn son. There’s another house of the same architectural style but even larger on this same lake, which the founder built for himself. I’ll point it out when we go outside. It’s visible across the lake. Originally Laurie and I were supposed to stay there, but it turned out that it is curiously enough being occupied by a group of militiamen from Holland.”


“What the hell are militiamen from Holland doing out here in the middle of nowhere?” Warren questioned as he rejoined the others.


“That’s another rather long story,” Jack said. “The town looks peaceful, but it has some definite social problems stemming from the shoe factory going bust about fifteen years ago. As a consequence, it’s got its own, homegrown right-wing militia called the Diehard Patriots. On top of that, it seems to have what might be a 
developing medical mystery of a dozen or so people exhibiting rapidly progressive Alzheimer’s-like symptoms.”


“Uh-oh,” Warren voiced. “That sounds like an irresistible clarion call for the Jack Stapleton I know. If there’s trouble to be had, he can find it. I’m glad I came.”


Jack laughed at Warren’s suggestion. “You’re giving me too much credit for finding trouble.”


“As I said on the phone, trouble seems to be your middle name,” Warren said facetiously.


Jada called out from the other side of the room: “This has to be the largest and most uniquely gorgeous kitchen I’ve ever seen.” She was standing at the impressively sized, original woodburning stove, while looking back at the new ultra-modern appliances surrounding Jack and Warren at the opposite end.


“It is unique,” Jack agreed. “But so is the rest of the house. Come! Let me show you.”


After leaving their backpacks at the foot of the grand staircase, they wandered from room to room, appreciating all the intricate Gothic details. Jack particularly enjoyed watching Warren, who was obviously mesmerized. Being in the moving business he’d been in a lot of houses in and around the Big Apple, but nothing quite like this. Eventually after touring the entire first floor, Jack got them outside on the front porch.


“So, what do you think?” Jack asked after he’d given the two visitors time to appreciate the view of the private, isolated lake surrounded by virgin forest with the Adirondack Mountains looming in the background.


“Looks pretty damned desolate and boring to me,” Warren said with a shake of his head, pretending not to be impressed. “If I ever have a yearning for a hit of nature, which I rarely do, all I have to 
do is walk into Central Park. It’s a hell of a lot easier than driving all the way up here to the middle of nowhere.”


Jada playfully swatted him, which caused him to pretend to cower.


“It is gorgeous,” Jada then declared. “I had no idea New York State had such pretty scenery, to be honest. It’s like an old-fashioned postcard of a mythical, sylvan landscape.”


“Oh, wow!” Warren teased. “Listen to the English teacher showing off with ‘sylvan landscape’!”


Jada again playfully swatted Warren, making him cringe yet again.


“You’re an English teacher?” Jack questioned.


“After a fashion,” she said. “Actually, I teach the nineteenth-century English literature at Barnard.”


“Interesting,” Jack said. “Laurie will be thrilled. She’s been enamored of the nineteenth-century English novel since she was a teenager.”


“Then we certainly will have at least one thing in common,” Jada remarked happily.


“Is that the other Bennet house you mentioned?” Warren questioned while pointing across the lake.


“It is,” Jack said.


“It does look strikingly similar to this house even from this distance.”


“Apparently that was the goal,” Jack said. “Obviously a huge amount of effort was expended in their design and construction. I was told it necessitated bringing craftspeople all the way from Italy.”


“And you said it is currently occupied by militiamen from Holland?” Warren said. “That’s big-time weird. How many?”


“I was told four,” Jack said. “I met one of them who played 
basketball with us yesterday. You might meet him, too, if he comes today and you’re up for playing. He’s a nice enough fellow and a decent player but without much finesse. Curiously enough, he’s a microbiology technician in a hospital in Amsterdam, which caught me by surprise.”


“So, what are these four militiamen doing here?” Warren asked, still staring at the house across the lake.


“I don’t know exactly,” Jack said. “Supposedly they’re here to help the local Diehard Patriots by instructing them in whatever it is that far right-wing militias do. The town’s police chief described the Diehard Patriots as a group of local ne’er-do-wells whose lives had been permanently upended by the closure of the Bennet Shoe factory. Apparently they like to go out at night to practice shooting their AR-15s for fear of coming government overreach, and the Dutch fellows give them pointers.”


Warren looked at Jack and assumed a confused expression. “That’s some weird shit. Somebody should go over there and check those boys out.”


“The police chief did exactly that,” Jack said. “Right when the militia people first arrived he visited and made a point to meet them. He said they were remarkably cooperative and respectful and that their papers were in order. And they’re hardly ever seen off the grounds.”


Warren looked back across the lake at the house. “Weird shit,” he repeated.


“What about swimming in the lake?” Jada asked. “I see through the trees there’s the pool. Is the lake not good for swimming for some reason?”


“I asked the same question yesterday,” Jack said. “Quite the contrary: The lake is fine for swimming. Did you bring your swimsuit?”


“I certainly did,” Jada said.


“I was hoping you had,” Jack said. “The water is crystal clear and the temperature is just about perfect unless if you dive down eight or nine feet or more. If you do, it gets downright cold. But the surface temperature is fine. Laurie and I swam before breakfast this morning, and it was delightful. Speaking of Laurie, come! Let’s say hello.”


Waving over his shoulder for the others to follow, Jack headed over to the steps that descended down to the lawn. From there it was a short walk through the copse of young birch trees to the pool house, pool, firepit, and barbecue. Laurie, who had seen them coming, got up from her poolside chaise longue to welcome them.


After Laurie and Warren exchanged a quick embrace, Jack introduced Jada and included that she was a professor of nineteenth-century English literature. Laurie’s face lit up, and she was quick to point out that at that very moment she was rereading an old leather-bound copy of 
Pride and Prejudice
 that she’d found in the library.


While the women were happily talking books, Jack motioned Warren to follow him down the lawn and out onto the dock. Skirting the overturned canoe, they sat in matching Adirondack chairs. It couldn’t have been more comfortable with a warm sun beating down, a slight breeze, and the temperature near perfect.


“I noticed that when Jada asked about swimming in the lake you didn’t say much,” Jack said. “Are you a swimmer?”


“Hardly,” Warren admitted. “I learned in my twenties, and after a lot of effort at least I won’t drown if I happen to fall into a pool, but I’m not that big on it.”


“I understand,” Jack said. “Did you bring a bathing suit with you on this trip?”


“Jada insisted. So, yes I brought one.”


“Good,” Jack said. “Have you ever been in a canoe?”


“Never.”


“I’ll be happy to take you for a paddle while you are here if you are interested.”


“I suppose,” Warren said. He was again staring out across the lake.


“I’m getting the message you are not all that interested in canoeing. Are you back to wondering about those militia guys?”


“Right on,” Warren admitted. “Did the microbiology technician say anything at all about being a militiaman?”


“He did,” Jack said. “He told me it’d been his major hobby since he’d been a teenager.”


“Okay, that makes a certain amount of sense,” Warren said, “especially considering the recognized stupidity of teenagers the world over.”


“You’re right,” Jack agreed. With that thought in mind, he found himself, like Warren, staring across at the Bennet Estate. The only problem was that thinking about the four men from the Netherlands reawakened the original question: What the hell could have attracted them to Essex Falls, hardly a militia mecca and a long way away from Amsterdam.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 18


Thursday, July 24, 3:48 
p.m.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


Alexei was back to feeling annoyed and taken advantage of. He alone was out in the barn toiling away while the others were up in the house playing cards or reading or just loafing around to pass the time. Earlier even Alexei had been enjoying himself to an extent. He and Dmitry had been down in the basement game room fully engrossed in a hard-fought Ping-Pong playoff by ultimately winning six games out of ten. Conveniently enough, they were remarkably closely matched in terms of Ping-Pong ability, which made playing particularly entertaining, especially since both were equally competitive. At that point in the match they had each won five games and were about to start the deciding game.


But Viktor had put an abrupt end to their Ping-Pong “world series” when he’d suddenly appeared and demanded that Alexei drop everything and immediately head out to the barn to check the theta prion level in the fermenter.


“But it’s only been twenty-four hours!” Alexei had complained. “There’s not a chance in heaven or hell that there would be adequate production after only twenty-four hours.”


“I don’t care,” Viktor had said. “I want to know how the batch is doing right now. So, get your butt out there and check it out or there’ll be hell to pay.”


For several seconds Alexei had had to forcibly restrain himself from throwing a fit. He’d even looked down at the Ping-Pong paddle he had in his hand and had to actively suppress himself from throwing it at Viktor.


But Alexei didn’t do anything except put down the paddle, roll his eyes for Dmitry’s benefit, and dutifully head out to the barn, where he’d remained for the last several hours.


What he’d been able to accomplish so far was get an aliquot out of the fermenter while maintaining the carbon dioxide, oxygen, pH, and temperature levels with precision. He’d then subjected the sample to a run in the sonification chamber Dmitry had cleverly devised since they hadn’t been able to order one within an appropriate time frame. This was to break apart the contained yeast cells. Then he’d used the centrifuge they had been able to get in Albany to separate out the theta prion that the yeast had been dutifully fabricating since he knew its molecular weight.


He was now about ready to add the colorimetric analyzer, which would give a reasonable approximation of the theta prion concentration. Before he began working, he’d donned an impermeable protective gown, a face shield, and latex surgical gloves. The last thing he wanted to do was contaminate himself, knowing full well if he did, he’d soon suffer cognitive decline leading to dementia. He also knew full well the unbelievable stability of prions in general, which were resistant to all the things that viruses, bacteria, and 
fungi were sensitive to, including all the usual antiseptics and sterilization techniques. Prions were almost indestructible, which was one of the primary reasons they were the perfect bioweapon.


Positioning himself under adequate light with the centrifuge vial in one hand and the pipetted amount of dye in the other, plus a colorimetric chart front and center on the improvised bench top, he was just about to mix the two when the barn door slammed open, shattering the sustained silence and causing him to literally jump. Almost simultaneous with the sudden racket, Dmitry loudly yelled Alexei’s name.


Literally counting to ten silently with Dmitry again insistently calling out his name, he ignored his co-worker while he carefully emptied the pipette back into the dye container.


“Alexei, I’m talking to you!” Dmitry snapped, coming up behind him, obviously irritated he was being ignored.


After putting the cap on the dye container and slipping the vial back into the centrifuge, Alexei finally turned to the insistent Dmitry. “In case you didn’t notice, I’m busy!” he snapped back. “I think that’s obvious.”


“Whatever,” Dmitry said with a wave of dismissal. “Viktor wants you back at the house on the double.”


“Wait a second,” Alexei said, rolling his eyes. “He insisted on immediately knowing the current prion concentration in the fermenter a few hours ago. I’m in the middle of finding it out.”


“It has to wait,” Dmitry said. “Viktor wants you up at the house now! He made that perfectly clear, believe me. JD surprised us by showing up unexpectedly, pounding on the door, and making demands. Since you are the one who has dealt with him the most from day one, Viktor wants you to come handle him.”


“What the hell is JD here for?” Alexei questioned. The news definitely took him aback. He immediately but carefully snapped off his gloves, making certain they stayed inside out. He started to undo his gown, thinking that JD showing up was certainly out of the ordinary and not welcome, especially so close to their departure.


“Something about his taking on the reins of the Diehard Patriots,” Dmitry said. “But Viktor managed to distract him by insisting he have a beer first.”


“All right, let’s go,” Alexei said after he’d responsibly put aside the soiled gloves and gown, which they buried in a deep pit they’d created behind the barn. He planned on dealing later with the plastic face shield using concentrated sodium hydroxide, which was one of the very few compounds capable of denaturing prion protein.


As they hurried up the path to the house, Alexei prodded Dmitry further about what JD had said. What he learned was that JD wanted to set up a definite schedule for upcoming maneuvers and lectures, and he wanted to talk about money.


“Jesus Christ!” Alexei complained. “What’s come over him? JD’s always been so reliably lackadaisical. If we’re forced into doing any more of the maneuver nonsense, it’s obviously all going to fall to you and me.”


“Don’t I know it!” Dmitry answered.


Entering the house, Alexei and Dmitry found JD sitting at the expansive kitchen island nursing a longneck Bud Light with both Viktor and Nikolai. Viktor had JD carrying on about his parents’ hardware store, which had been started by JD’s maternal grandfather. It was where he worked when he worked. The association had been definitely beneficial to the Russians, as Dmitry had used JD innumerable times to order non-scientific tools when putting 
together their makeshift microbiology lab, including the fermenter itself.


“Hey, JD! What’s up?” Alexei voiced, making a point of using the syntax he’d learned from dealing with him and Ethan. He went into the refrigerator and grabbed two Bud Lights, one for himself and one for Dmitry. After handing off Dmitry’s, he took a barstool across from where JD was sitting. From Dmitry’s appearance alone, Alexei sensed a distinct difference in the man’s mindset. Gone was the normal impression that he’d just taken a hit of weed, as he was obviously surprisingly alert. Even his posture was more erect.


“I’ve been doing a lot of thinking over the last couple of hours,” JD was saying as Alexei and Dmitry popped the tops off their beers and made themselves comfortable.


“What about?” Alexei questioned, taking a slug of his beer. He glanced briefly at Viktor, who nodded imperceptibly, giving him the authority to take over the conversation.


“About Diehard Patriots,” JD said. “I met up with Janet Huber. Actually, she made a point of finding me. Did you ever meet Janet?”


“I don’t believe I did,” Alexei responded.


“She was Ethan’s girlfriend,” JD said. “They were living together out near where I live at the garage. She wanted to provide me the papers and whatnot Ethan kept about the Diehard Patriots. She said she’d given all the other stuff to his mother and father, like his clothes and a couple of guns. Looking through everything, I realized somebody’s got to take over where he left off. You know what I’m saying?”


“Of course,” Alexei said. He glanced at the others, particularly Viktor, but Viktor’s indifferent expression didn’t change. “Will you be our major contact from now on?”


“I guess you could say that,” JD said with a nod. “I mean, I talked 
with Nate Morrison, the other founder, but he said he’d gotten a new job and didn’t have the time or whatever. So, I guess I’m it.”


“Congratulations,” Alexei said, trying to sound enthused.


“Luckily my name was already on the bank account,” JD said, “so that’s not going to be a problem. But funds are getting low, and I don’t think we can hit up the members with more dues, especially since we’ve been requiring them to buy their own ammo for our maneuvers.”


“If they are buying their own ammunition, why do you need more funds?” Alexei asked, trying to be understanding.


“The biggest problem is this property, the Bennet Estate,” JD said. “Paying the rent, which is due, is going to break the bank. I didn’t even know we Diehard Patriots were paying for it. Ethan kept secrets from Nate and me and the rest of the gang.”


“That’s not a problem,” Viktor said, suddenly speaking up in his deep, commanding voice. “We’ll be happy to pay the rent, provided we pay you in cash and not the landlord. We’d even be more than happy to pay a bit extra for your help in handling it, which we appreciate. We’d much prefer not having to deal directly with the managing company.”


“Okay, terrific! That will be great,” JD said with a broad smile of relief. “Problem solved!” He then lifted his Bud Light bottle in a toast before taking a healthy swig. After he swallowed, he looked at the label and asked: “How come we’re drinking Bud Light? What’s up with your homemade brew? I was hoping to give it a try, knowing what I know about what that fermenter cost.”


“Our beer has been exquisite,” Viktor said without a moment’s hesitation. “And we thank you for your help in getting the main piece of equipment. It’s been so delicious that we go through a batch in a matter of days. At the moment, we’re sorry to say, we’re 
out, but we have another batch brewing as we speak. When you arrived, Alexei, our brewmaster, was out in the barn specifically attending to it. Isn’t that right, Alexei?”


“That’s right,” Alexei said. He glared across the island at Viktor, feeling a pang of irritation at the man especially because he was the one responsible for them not having left Essex Falls on Monday when they planned.


“Too bad,” JD voiced. “I would have liked to try it. Spending more than six thousand dollars on a fermenter blows my mind, but to each his own. Anyway, let’s talk about the truck. I didn’t know this but Brent Phillips, the guy who owns it, had been giving Ethan serious grief for several days about wanting it back. Now that I am handling the Diehard affairs, how do you propose we deal with this problem?”


All eyes went to Viktor, who cleared his throat and said: “Would some cash change Mr. Phillips’s mind about wanting it back? Obviously we need transportation.”


“I imagine so,” JD said with a shrug. “I’m willing to suggest it. How much should I say you are offering?”


“Let’s let him decide, provided it’s reasonable,” Viktor said.


“That should work,” JD said. “Okay, I’ll talk with him and let you know.” JD then drained his beer and put the empty bottle down on the granite countertop. “Next issue and the most important: I know you people were aware of how pissed Ethan was getting that only Alexei and Dmitry were showing up for our maneuvers and even for most of our lectures. He wrote in his notes after Sunday night’s operation that he was going to terminate your role with us and kick you immediately out of this mansion. He even wrote that he’d threatened you, Alexei, saying that he’d get the Essex Falls police involved concerning your IDs if you didn’t do it. Whether he 
would have followed through, we’ll never know. Nonetheless, the more I think about the situation, the more I find myself agreeing with Ethan and his conditions. We Diehard Patriots haven’t been getting what we signed up for, and considering all the money we’ve been paying, it’s pissing me off, too.”


For a few moments silence reigned as the five men stared at each other across the expanse of the kitchen island. For several beats no one moved or even breathed. The only sound was the distant melody of summer songbirds drifting in through the open windows.


“Well,” JD broke the silence he’d created. “It seems to me that there is an easy solution here.” He looked directly at Viktor. “How about making some changes. Let’s sit down and plan some very specific militia and weapons lectures for this coming weekend as well as another major nighttime operation. We can include some combat tactics of your choosing. Commander, you are the authority, and I’d like to announce to my members that you will be involved personally. We all look up to you.”


“Done!” Viktor stated without the slightest hesitation. “But I’ll need some time. What I’ll do is work on it this evening and come up with a number of lecture ideas and a proposal for a special operation.”


A lopsided smile appeared on JD’s face. He shook his head in surprise. “Well, that was easy,” he said.


“In fact I’ll get right on it this afternoon,” Viktor assured him. “Alexei will be in contact with you about it all tomorrow. However, since it is already Thursday afternoon, planning a major operation for this weekend and expecting it to be successful is too optimistic. After all, there wouldn’t even be enough time to procure the necessary ammunition.”


“Understood, Commander, thank you!” JD said. He saluted and 
then got to his feet, as did Alexei and Dmitry. Viktor and Nikolai stayed put.


“One final thing,” JD added, switching his attention to Alexei. “I hope you’re planning on showing up for basketball again this afternoon. If you do, there might be enough for full court five-on-five. I heard from Dr. Bob that the visiting doctor from New York City is bringing one of his friends who’s supposedly quite a player.”


“Sorry, but please let them know I won’t be able to make it,” Alexei said. “I’ve got a lot of work to do out in the brewery.”


“That work can wait,” Viktor interjected to Alexei’s shock. Viktor then added: “He’ll be there.”


“Perfect,” JD said. “Okay, see you later, Alexei!” With a wave to the others, he turned around and headed out of the kitchen on his way to the back door.


For a few beats the four Russians stared at one another. No one spoke or moved. They all knew that JD had suddenly changed from a useful simpleton to a potential threat. The rear door was heard opening and then slamming shut. Viktor broke the silence. “We need to talk,” he said.


Alexei and Dmitry dutifully regained their seats, and the moment Alexei was situated he said: “Why the hell did you tell JD I’d come to basketball today?” he questioned. Although he knew he was overstepping his bounds by speaking up in such a fashion, he couldn’t help himself. There was too much irony involved. The one time since they arrived that he didn’t want to participate, Viktor was directing him to do so. “I was thinking I shouldn’t play today,” he continued. “Yesterday afternoon I was forced to approach the forensic pathologist and start a conversation, which was very uncharacteristic behavior for me. The reason I gambled doing it was because it was the only way to possibly find out why he was here in Essex 
Falls. Tonight, he’ll undoubtedly expect to pick up where we left off. He actually specifically said as much, and there’s not going to be any way for me to avoid it. Heaven knows what he might ask. I sense that he is a hell of a lot smarter than these local imbeciles, and I worry that he’s even been to Amsterdam, which will put me in a difficult position, to say the very least.”


“I trust you will be able to handle it,” Viktor said with a wave of indifference. “At the moment, the pathologist is not our problem. JD is our problem. He made reference to our IDs and the police but didn’t elaborate. I need you to find out from him as discreetly as possible what he knows of our origins from Ethan’s papers.”


“Why didn’t you ask him when he brought it up a few minutes ago?” Alexei questioned irritably.


“Simply because it would have given the issue too much emphasis. At that moment he was obviously vexed and uptight, which had to be handled with delicacy and which I believe I did. As you plainly saw, he immediately calmed. But we have to be certain where his mindset is. Ethan I trusted, or we wouldn’t be here. I spent almost two months communicating with him daily before offering to come to Essex Falls. JD is a total unknown, particularly this new JD who seems to have found a new persona in his new role. What worries me is that we might have to rely on Novichok once again if he knows too much, because I’m absolutely committed to one more theta prion release. Theta prion deserves a bigger calling card than a mere dozen cases. Personally, I’d like to see double that, which brings me to the status of the fermenter. How is this current batch of yeast doing?”


“I was just about to add the colorimetric dye to estimate the theta concentration, if there is any, when Dmitry burst into the barn and dragged me up here,” Alexei said with frustration. It 
seemed totally unfair to him that he was the one who most wanted to have already left Essex Falls, and yet here he was the one who had to do the most work to keep them there.


“Well, get your butt back down there and do it,” Viktor commanded. “As soon as we do this final release, we can get the hell out of here.”




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 19


Thursday, July 24, 4:10 
p.m.


Essex Falls, New York


Braking rather abruptly after coasting at a rapid clip around the corner where Main Street dead-ended into Bennet Avenue, Jack stopped his Trek just outside the Bennet Clinic’s double front door, throwing up a spray of gravel in the process. After dismounting he stood still for a moment, supporting his bike and breathing heavily to allow, as he explained it to himself, his cardiovascular system to pay off his oxygen debt. He’d ridden the four miles from the Hiram House into town in just a tad over ten minutes while entertaining himself with the foolish notion that maybe he could keep up with the peloton in the Tour de France.


Jack was in a good mood after Warren’s arrival and had decided to come into town a bit early for basketball, for two reasons. The first was because Laurie’s little lecture on their drive back to the Hiram House had served to free him up from his attempt to keep from getting pulled into Bob’s current enigmas. He had been fighting his urge to honor the mini-vacation he was on with Laurie, but now 
that she had in essence given him the green light, there were a couple of things he wanted to do right away. The second was that Warren had offered to drive himself to the playground, which freed Jack up until five. After a quick check with Laurie to learn that she and Jada were going to the Pilates class while he and Warren were at the park, Jack had jumped on his bike.


As a tribute to the physical shape Jack was in, his breathing returned to a semblance of normal within a minute or two. At that point he gave some thought to what to do with his bike while he was in talking with Bob and Melanie. He’d not brought any of the various locks he religiously used at home. When he’d put the bike in the rental car, he had briefly thought about the issue but he couldn’t imagine that there would be much risk of bike theft in such a small, peaceful country town. Yet now he had second thoughts after spending an evening with the chief of police. Considering that his Trek had cost about ten times more than his first car, Jack thought it was the better part of valor to bring it inside. With that idea in mind, he opened one of the double doors and struggled to wheel it in against the automatic closure.


Bob’s office was to the left. Turning to the right, Jack guided his bike into the empty suite opposite Bob’s and leaned it against that office’s unused reception desk. Returning back the way he’d come, he entered Bob’s waiting room. There was one elderly female patient waiting, and looking up from her phone’s screen, she politely smiled at Jack, who smiled back. Since Melanie’s desk was vacant, he walked around it and passed through an open door into the clinical area. In what seemed like a replay from the day before, he found both Bob and Melanie in the same treatment room with Bob doing another suturing job. This time it was on the base of a woman’s thumb, which she had sliced while trying to peel a mango.


Bob introduced Jack to the patient, whose name was Agnes Ferguson. While Bob continued his struggle with the very fine 5-0 silk, Melanie came out of the treatment room into the hallway to talk with Jack, closing the door behind her.


“We’re surprised to see you,” she said. “What’s up?”


“I had a sudden urge to follow up with you after our lunch conversation,” Jack said. “I wondered if you’ve had an opportunity to look into those issues we talked about involving the dementia cases?”


“I’m assuming you’re talking about the patients’ eating habits and addresses?”


“Exactly.”


“I’m afraid not,” Melanie said. “The afternoon patients started arriving just after we got back from lunch. But we’ve only one more patient to see this afternoon, and I’ll start on it after she’s been seen. I did have an opportunity to find an assessor’s map of the township online and downloaded it, so I’ll be able to print it out. At some point I’ll get around to marking where each of the dementia patients live, for whatever that might be worth.”


“That sounds perfect,” Jack said. “I have another request, too, and hoping not burden you unreasonably, I’d like to take a peek at each of the patients’ records. I assume you are aware that being a New York medical examiner, I have the legal right to do so.”


“I am aware,” Melanie said. “I can print those out easily as well.”


“Terrific,” Jack said. “I appreciate it. What about the two patients that were seen this afternoon that you felt would possibly be added to the series? What were the names again?”


“I don’t believe I mentioned the names,” Melanie said. “They are George Rogers and Gloria Hosbrook.”


“What’s the consensus after they were seen?”


“They definitely need to be added to the series, at least according to their symptoms and timing. It was the parents who brought in the young man, who’s only twenty-four. His muscle spasms and gait problems were immediately apparent just coming into the examination room. Pretty much the same with the woman, who is only ten years older. She was brought in by her husband.”


“That’s remarkably young for Alzheimer’s symptoms,” Jack said. “What did you do for them?”


“The same as we did with the previous cases,” Melanie said. “Both were referred to the Clinton Hospital for MRIs and neurology consults. We’re really at a loss of what else to do, to be honest.”


“Were the histories essentially the same?” Jack asked.


“They were almost identical,” Melanie said. “With both patients the symptoms began abruptly only a little more than a week previously and have rapidly progressed. Prior to that, according to their family members, they had been entirely normal. It’s frightening. As I said to Bob and can admit to you, dealing with these patients has become the first time in my clinical life as a nurse that I’m feeling concerned about my own health. I was reluctant to ask this question of Bob but I’ll ask it of you: Do you think we are all at risk?”


“Do you mean contracting the illness from these patients?” Jack asked.


“Exactly,” Melanie admitted. “Having been trained as a nurse, it embarrasses me to admit it! But after our lunch conversation, it has been difficult for me to think of much else other than an untreatable, fatal brain disease is spreading in our community, and Bob and I are dealing directly with each one of these unfortunate patients.”


“You shouldn’t be embarrassed,” Jack said. “It is a natural response. But my answer is no. Following current medical theory and 
what we found on autopsy, I’m pretty confident we’re dealing with a prion disease. We’ll get confirmation from the samples we sent today down to the OCME. Unfortunately, the test takes a few days. But assuming we are dealing with prion disease, these victims themselves are not contagious, except possibly by the autopsy tools we used this morning on Stanley Kramer’s brain. They could possibly be contaminated. I meant to bring this up, but those instruments should be soaked in sodium hydroxide for several hours just to be safe. Prion protein is remarkably resistant to denaturation except by sodium hydroxide. It is why it accumulates in infected patients’ brains and ultimately kills them.”


“Oh, my goodness,” Melanie said. “Thank you for telling me. I’ll be sure to see to it.”


“Although the patients themselves are not contagious,” Jack continued, “the way they became infected could possibly infect us and others. That’s why we have to try to figure it out, if we possibly can. This could very well turn into an epidemic of sorts if the source is not found and dealt with.


“Surely New York State will be sending an epidemiological team here in response to Bob’s filings, and they can take over. Unfortunately, the state’s medical bureaucracy has significant inertia, so there will undoubtedly be a delay. How long of a delay, who’s to know? In the meantime, I’d like for us to learn what we can. What about the missing corpse; has there been any follow-up?”


“Do you think the dementia cases and the missing corpse are related?” Melanie asked with shocked surprise.


“At least they’re temporally related since we discovered the missing corpse this morning,” Jack said. He shrugged his shoulders. “At the moment I don’t have any reason to think they are otherwise related. The only reason I’m bringing up the missing corpse is 
because it’s a problem I take personally. As a medical examiner, I can’t help but do so because it is specifically meant to prevent me from doing my job. When a body purposefully vanishes before an autopsy it is usually for one of two reasons. It’s either because someone thinks that the procedure is a violation of the victim’s personage, which is misguided, as the procedure does the opposite by allowing the dead to tell his or her story, or more commonly the body is taken because someone doesn’t want something possibly discovered, which is usually to cover up some sort of criminal behavior.”


“There hasn’t been any explanation of what happened to the body so far,” Melanie said. “We’re waiting on Chief Hargrove’s investigation. We’ve yet to hear from him.”


“Perhaps I’ll run by and ask him if he’s made any progress.”


“Good idea! I’m sure he’ll be willing to fill you in with whatever progress he’s made. The police station is behind the post office on Washington Avenue.”


“Thank you. I think I know where it is. Besides talking with Chief Hargrove, I’d also like to chat with Ethan Jameson’s family. I gather they live here in town.”


“They certainly do,” Melanie said. “His parents and the paternal grandparents live together less than two blocks away from here, Twenty-two Cutter Lane.” She pointed over Jack’s shoulder in the general direction. “I lived for a time directly across the street from the grandparents before I moved out to the countryside.”


“The parents live with the grandparents?” Jack questioned. “Or is it the other way around?”


“The parents live with the grandparents,” Melanie said. “It’s been a sad family saga. Edward Jameson, Ethan’s father, still struggles with the alcoholism brought on by losing his job at the shoe factory. His wife, Alice, and Ethan and his older sister truly 
suffered. Why Alice stayed married is one of those unknowns, but to survive they ended up moving in with her husband’s parents.”


“Good Lord,” Jack said. It was the kind of story he hated to hear. It also suggested that the probability someone from such a family managing to abduct Ethan Jameson’s body without leaving a trace for whatever reason was close to zero. Still, he felt obligated to be certain. “I’m thinking of stopping unexpectedly at the house to see what I can learn, although it doesn’t sound like any of them could be involved.”


“I can’t imagine,” Melanie agreed.


“How is it you know so much about the family?”


“It’s one of the benefits or disadvantages, depending on your point of view, of living in a small town,” Melanie explained. “We all know everybody’s secrets, which means they aren’t secrets. I grew up here and only left for my professional training.”


“What about Ethan’s girlfriend?” Jack asked. “Is she particularly religious or do you think she might have a strong negative feeling about a loved one being autopsied?”


Melanie laughed briefly and then apologized for doing so. “Janet Huber is one of the more put-together young women whom I happen to know. No, I can’t imagine she’d object to an autopsy. Besides, she confided in me recently that the relationship with Ethan wasn’t working out. She’s a third-grade teacher and, similar to myself, grew up here. Her parents own and run the town’s convenience store, and it’s where she works during the summer months.”


“Might I find her there this afternoon if I stopped by?”


“I wouldn’t at all be surprised. Every time I go in for whatever, she’s behind the register. Do you know where Huber Convenience Store is located? It’s at the other end of town when you first come in on this side of Main Street.”


“I know where it is,” Jack said. “Thanks for all the info. How about I come by in the morning and get whatever it is you’re able to put together?”


“I’ll see you then,” Melanie said. “I’ll work on it this afternoon,” She turned around and opened the door to the treatment room, which turned out to be almost perfect timing. Bob had placed the final suture and was preparing to bandage the hand.


Jack apologized to Agnes Ferguson for interrupting yet again and asked Bob if he could speak to him for a moment. Bob had Melanie take over with the bandaging and then stepped out into the hall.


“Sorry to be a pest,” Jack said. “I know you are busy.”


“Oh, please!” Bob said with a wave of dismissal. “What’s up?”


“I might be a tad late for basketball,” Jack said. “I’ve got a bit of gumshoeing to do. My friend Warren arrived and will be coming on his own, so if I happen to be a few minutes late, please introduce yourself. You won’t have any trouble recognizing him as he looks like a Black Adonis. I also wanted to tell you that he and his girlfriend brought a ton of steaks up from the city, and we’d like to invite you and Carol out to the Hiram House tonight for a repeat barbecue around eight if you’re up for it.”


“We’re up for it!” Bob said eagerly. “We’ll be there with pleasure. What sort of gumshoeing are you doing?”


“I’ll explain tonight, especially if I learn anything. Just so you know, Melanie is going to be doing some of her own researching after you see your last patient. Speaking about Melanie reminds me: I meant to ask her to join us for tonight’s barbecue, and it slipped my mind. Can you do that for me?”


“Of course,” Bob said.


“Thank you! And with that, I’m off. See you in a half hour or so in Bennet Park.”


After getting a thumbs-up from Bob, Jack quickly retreated out of his office and retrieved his bike from across the hall. Once outside, he jumped on, heading for his first stop at 22 Cutter Lane. Without giving the issue much thought, he’d decided to order his stops geographically, which meant first the Jamesons’, next the police station, and ending up at Huber Convenience Store.


Heading first north for a block and then west for another, he found himself looking at 22 Cutter Lane. It was one of the tract houses that he and Laurie had seen on their first day in Essex Falls that was in godawful shape to the point of being potentially condemnable. Its exterior white paint had long since mostly peeled off to expose the wood siding. The roof was amateurly patched in multiple places with mismatched boards and tar paper. The yard was completely overgrown and a portion of the front porch had collapsed.


For a moment Jack hesitated, already mostly convinced that no one from such an establishment would be capable of doing something remarkable like spiriting a dead body out of the Bennet Clinic building in the middle of the night without leaving a trace. Whoever had done it would have had to have both access, help, and a certain number of resources, none of which was suggested by the appearance of the home in front of him.


Nonetheless, taking a deep breath for a bit of fortitude, Jack laid his bike down alongside the beaten path walkway that ran through the overgrown front yard and approached the sad-looking house. With some hesitation whether the structure would support his weight, he mounted the four steps up to the front porch. There was a doorbell, but it was apparent it had long since stopped functioning, 
as the button was stuck down. Instead, Jack rapped on the door. When no one responded, he did it again with a bit more gusto.


Jack was about to give up and leave when the door opened. Standing in the doorway was a scruffily bearded, moderately obese man of indeterminate middle age wearing a soiled T-shirt and a pair of baggy shorts. He was holding an open bottle of beer. “Whatever you’re selling, we’re not buying,” he said in a hoarse voice. Almost immediately an equivalently aged woman who was marginally better put together appeared behind him. A second later an aged couple materialized out of the interior gloom behind both. It seemed that Jack’s arrival was somewhat of an event.


“My name is Dr. Stapleton,” Jack began, watching carefully the expressions of the man and the woman. “Are you Mr. and Mrs. Jameson?”


“Are you here about my son, Ethan?” the woman demanded, pushing her way past her husband and stepping out onto the porch. “Tell me! Have they found him yet? This is an atrocity.”


“No, he has yet to be found,” Jack admitted, continuing to watch her closely. “I’m sorry for your loss. I was about to examine him this morning to determine how he passed when we discovered his body was missing. The police are investigating. I’m here to ask if you have any reservations about our doing a postmortem examination when his body is located.”


“Hell no!” the man answered. “We want to know how the prick died, the bastard.”


“How about you, Mrs. Jameson?” Jack asked. “Do you have any reservations about an autopsy?”


Mrs. Jameson shrugged with an expression of incredulity. “Why would I mind? He hadn’t given us a dime for months.”


“Sorry to bother you, folks,” Jack said. It was depressing even to 
talk with them. Turning around without another word, he rescued his bike from the overgrown weeds. A moment later he was heading directly into the strong July afternoon sunlight. He was eager to get to the police station as soon as possible and then on to Huber Convenience Store because he really didn’t want to be late for basketball.


Once he reached the station he was presented with the same conundrum of what to do with his bike. Although he thought there was a low probability of it being stolen outside of the police station, he still was reluctant to take any chances. Ultimately he decided to bring the Trek inside again, and once he did, no one seemed to mind as he leaned it against the wall by the exterior door.


In a hurry and feeling that he knew the chief personally from the previous night’s festivities at the Nielsons’, Jack ignored the duty officer and walked directly into Bill Hargrove’s office through its open door. When he caught sight of the chief now decked out in his short-sleeved, summer police uniform heavy with evidence of his elevated rank, Jack was immediately impressed. With bulging biceps, he seemed significantly more sizable and intimidating than he had the night before in his civvies.


“What a nice surprise, Doctor!” Bill said, leaping to his feet. As he came around his desk he grabbed a chair from against the wall.


“I don’t need to sit down,” Jack said, raising his hands as if shielding himself. “I’ve only a few minutes. I’m scheduled to meet Bob at the basketball court at five, but I wanted to ask you a few quick questions, if you don’t mind.”


“Please, ask away,” Bill said. He put the chair back and turned to face Jack.


“I was told you’re investigating the disappearance of Ethan Jameson’s body.”


“We most certainly are. What a strange episode and what a disappointment not to have autopsy results. Without exaggeration this might be the weirdest thing that’s happened in this town since I joined the force as a rookie.”


“Have you made any progress in your investigation?”


“I’m sorry to say, but no we haven’t,” Bill confessed. “But I can assure you it’s not for lack of trying. It’s all we’ve been doing all day, both me and my duty officer. But despite all our efforts, it’s as much of a mystery now as it was when Bob first called me to report it.”


“I assume you visited the clinic in your investigation.”


“Absolutely. It was the first thing we did.”


“Did you find any evidence of a forced entry?” Jack asked.


“No. Not at all, although we did find a window in the back was missing part of its lock. That could have been the point of entry. We mentioned it to Bob, and he’s going to have it rectified immediately. But if that was how the body snatchers got in, fixing it is the real-life equivalent of locking the barn after the horse was stolen.”


“Did you find any evidence of an intrusion?” Jack asked.


“We didn’t, which is the other major mystery. At first I had trouble believing Bob when he said there had been no warning that anything was amiss in the building before stumbling on the fact that the body had disappeared from the cooler.”


“I can attest to that,” Jack said. “Laurie and I were right there when it happened. I assume Bob has some kind of cleaning service for the building and my guess would be they come in frequently. Have you checked with them?”


“We have. It’s a local business whose proprietor I know well. His people clean Wednesday and Friday afternoons and claim not to have access, meaning on their designated days, they show up while 
Melanie is still there, and she stays to lock up after they are finished. With drugs on-site, Bob’s been reluctant to give out keys.”


“Stands to reason,” Jack said. “What about your police rounds last night? Do your duty officers make a regular check at the clinic?”


“Absolutely,” Bill said, as if he felt challenged. “The three to eleven shift makes evening rounds around ten 
p.m
. and the eleven to seven does the same around three 
a.m
.”


“And I’m assuming that the clinic building was checked.”


“Absolutely,” Bill said confidently. “On both shifts and duly logged.”


“Okay,” Jack said with a slight shake of his head. “It’s certainly a mystery, and I’m sorry we weren’t able to provide you with any information about Ethan’s death. I know you were counting on it.”


“It wasn’t your fault,” Bill responded. “And luckily there haven’t been any additional deaths involving the other four pest control employees who live in town, which is what I was worried about.”


“If you are wondering why I’m asking these questions, it’s because I take it personally when a body that I’m about to autopsy vanishes. I feel that it is denying the dead to tell his or her story, which frequently can help the living. On my way here I stopped in at the Jamesons’ home to try to get a feel of whether they could have been involved.”


Bill gave a short laugh of derision. “I could have disabused you of that notion.”


“They disabused me of it just fine,” Jack said with a short laugh of his own. “There’s one other person I’d like to get a feel for: Janet Huber. Has she been involved in your investigation?”


“Of course,” Bill said. “I did speak with her, and she seemed legitimately shocked to hear what had happened. After talking with her, I sincerely doubt she was involved in any way with the body’s 
disappearance, especially because the town’s grapevine has it that her relationship with Ethan was not going well. But that’s not to say she wouldn’t be capable. She’s certainly more than smart enough. But I’ve known her and her family for most of her life, and she’s never been self-indulgent, self-centered, or overly religious like I imagine someone would have to be to pull off something like this, especially covering their tracks so well. It’s as if whoever did it is thumbing their nose at us authority figures.”


“Or wanted us authority figures not to know something that might have been revealed during the autopsy.”


“How do you mean?”


“Maybe the body thief had something to do with his passing.”


For a few beats Bill stared at Jack, and Jack held his tongue.


“Are you suggesting this might have been a homicide?” Bill asked, staring at Jack with his head cocked to the side and his brow furrowed.


“Before we do an autopsy, we try to have an open mind about all possibilities,” Jack said. “It’s why autopsies are important.”


“But Bob told me he was ninety-nine percent certain Ethan died of one of those powerful pesticides he worked with. I forget what he called them.”


“Organophosphates,” Jack offered.


“That’s it, organophosphates. Are you suggesting someone at the American Pest Control Company might have had a hand in his passing?”


“I’m not suggesting anything, just trying to keep an open mind. Have you been out to speak to the people at the pesticide company?”


“I did speak with the owner, of course, and I asked about Ethan’s recent behavior, but I didn’t ask specifically about any ongoing feuds or the like. The owner did offer that Ethan and the technician 
supervisor did occasionally have words but nothing serious on either side. But I’ll definitely be speaking with him again.”


“Since you seem to know so much about what is going on in town, did Ethan have any potentially violent interactions with anyone, particularly any of his fellow Diehard Patriots?”


“Not that I am aware of,” Bill said. “I did speak with John Daniels this morning for that very reason. He knew Ethan as well as anyone since they were both the Diehard Patriots’ founders, and he didn’t mention any conflicts other than reminding me about Ethan being irritated at the two Netherlander commanders.”


“Oh?” Jack questioned.


“Ethan was upset that only the lower-ranked two were showing up for their nighttime activities. He felt strongly that the commander and his lieutenant should be participating as well instead of attending to their brewery and had been saying so for some time.”


“Okay, now I remember,” Jack said. “I do remember now Bob telling Laurie and me about that right after we arrived. Bob said you’d learned it when you talked with Miss Huber Monday, the day Ethan died.”


“Correct! Right after his death, she was the main person I wanted to talk to besides Bob and Melanie. I knew Janet and Ethan were living together, and that if anyone knew or might be able to guess how Ethan had managed to poison himself, it would be her.”


“Did her mentioning that Ethan was irritated at the Netherlanders make you want to go back out to the Bennet Estate and have another chat with them?”


“Well, of course it passed through my mind,” Bill said. “But since Bob had told me about Ethan’s symptoms and Bob’s utterly strong impression that he’d been poisoned by some kind of pesticide, I didn’t think it was necessary and even might be misinterpreted as 
intrusive by the Netherlanders. To be honest, I’ve become very much appreciative of their presence.”


“That’s equally interesting to hear,” Jack said. It was his time to wrinkle his brows questioningly. “What’s making you appreciative?”


“For the time that they have been here, which is now going on six weeks, there’s been a significant uptick in the Diehard Patriots’ nighttime maneuvers as they call them. Despite that and despite my serious concerns, there’s been no major accident like fatal shootings, which I’ve been fearing for years. My inclination is to credit the Netherlanders; after all, they are supposedly professionals. I’d heard that not only are they supervising the Diehard Patriots’ nighttime activities, I understand they’ve also been giving a series of lectures on proper weapon handling and the like. It’s my strong opinion they’ve been a great benefit to our community. I’m actually thankful.”


“I can see your point,” Jack said, and he could. The idea of seventeen disaffected, marginally employed, young men afire with extremist ideology running around at night drinking beer and shooting off AR-15 rifles and not getting hurt in the process seemed an impossibility. The Netherlanders had to be responsible.


“I’ve not ruled out another visit out to the Bennet Estate,” Bill said. “It’s just not a high priority.”


“Understood,” Jack said. He glanced at his watch and grimaced. “Uh-oh, time’s marching on. I’ve got to run to get to the game, but I do want to at least meet Janet Huber. Melanie says she’ll be at the convenience store.”


“I’d say that was correct until the Margery Malone Elementary is back in session. During the summer, she’s always been the dutiful daughter and helped out.”


“I appreciate your time, Bill,” Jack said. “And one last thing. We’ve some friends visiting from the Big Apple who brought a bunch of steaks, and we’re having another barbecue out at the Hiram House tonight. If you and Grace would like to join, we’d love to have you. Bob and Carol are coming. Sorry about the short notice, but our friends just got here this afternoon.”


“That’s generous of you. Thank you. I’ll give her a call right away. I’m sure she’ll be happy to accept.”


“Terrific,” Jack said. “Around eight if that works for you. See you then.”


Without another word, Jack spun around and dashed out of Bill’s office. He merely nodded a cursory greeting to the duty officer before rescuing his bike. A minute later he was on it, heading south across town as Huber Convenience Store was on the opposite side of Main Street, close to the Roaring Fork River.


Upon arrival there was no debate about what to do with his bike. Without hesitation he wheeled it inside the single-story, gable-roofed building with Victorian Gothic Revival gingerbread. Conveniently enough the checkout line was close to the doorway where there was a large, old-fashioned, and rather elaborately decorated cash register positioned front and center on the counter. The old register reminded Jack of the convenience store in the small Midwestern town where he grew up. They had had an identical machine. The difference was that back then it was functional.


Behind the antique register was an athletic, youthful-appearing woman who Jack assumed was Janet Huber. She was wearing a bright-yellow sundress and appeared to be in her early to mid-twenties. She had a wide, oval, tanned face with small expressive features and bright blue eyes that flashed momentarily in Jack’s 
direction, seemingly eyeing his bike. If she cared about it being brought inside, she didn’t say anything. Instead, she carried on with a conversation she was having with the older woman she was helping check out.


Quickly Jack leaned his bike against the wall to the side of the modern, glass, double entrance doors and then stepped behind the woman. Conveniently no one else was in the checkout line although there were a number of other people shopping, especially back at the deli counter manned by an older couple. As Jack waited anxiously, he observed Janet. She had moderately curly, neatly coiffed hair whose summer cut was short enough to almost give the appearance that it wasn’t hair but rather a blond-colored helmet.


“Can I help you?” the young woman said with a mildly confused expression when it was Jack’s turn. She obviously noticed his empty hands and lack of a shopping basket or cart. Her luminous, cornflower-blue eyes stared directly at him.


“I hope so,” Jack said. “Are you Janet Huber?”


“I am…” Janet said questioningly, wondering who this stranger was.


“My name is Dr. Jack Stapleton,” Jack began. He hadn’t really thought through what he was going to say or specifically what he wanted to ask the woman. “I’m a forensic pathologist visiting Dr. Bob. I was supposed to assist him autopsying your boyfriend, Ethan Jameson, this morning. I understand that you have talked with Chief Hargrove today, so you are aware that his body has gone missing.”


“I did talk with the police chief this morning,” Janet said. “And yes, I know about what’s happened. But let me be clear. Ethan Jameson was not in any true sense of the word my boyfriend. We had been living together for a short time, but things were not 
working out well, although certainly not to the point of me wishing him harm or vice versa. With that understood, may I ask if the body has been found?”


“Unfortunately, not yet,” Jack said. “But Chief Hargrove is giving it his full attention. Let me ask you: How do you feel about an autopsy being done on Ethan Jameson when his body is located, assuming it is going to be located?”


“I’m not sure what you mean.”


“Are you against the procedure for any reason, religious or otherwise?”


“Of course not!” Janet said with emphasis. “I know autopsies are critical in some circumstances, and certainly this is one of those times. When I was in high school I used to watch 
CSI
 every week.”


Jack smiled inwardly, knowing how much that TV show had put forensics on the general public’s map despite its questionable realism. “How about any of Ethan’s close friends? Do you know anyone who would be seriously opposed to his being autopsied for whatever reason?”


“Ethan didn’t have any close friends,” Janet said. “He’s been a loner since I’ve known him in grammar school. He had a few acquaintances, John Daniels and Nate Morrison among them, but that was it. Listen: I’m going to have to cut this off. There are people that need to check out. I’m happy to continue this discussion but after-hours.”


Jack turned around and saw that there were several people standing in the checkout lane. He held up a finger to indicate he needed a minute or two more. Turning back to Janet, he said: “I know you also talked with Chief Hargrove on Monday and told him that Ethan was upset that morning about the foreign militiamen.”


“Yes, he acted really angry. He was going to ask them to leave.”


“And it was because the commander wasn’t participating.”


“Yes. The commander and his second in command.”


“And it was presumably because the commander and his lieutenant were spending too much time in their home brewery.”


Janet rolled her eyes. “Yes, that’s what he said.”


“Was this the first time he was angry about this, as far as you know?”


“Heavens no,” Janet said. “It was an ongoing problem, particularly over the last couple of weeks. But to be honest, I wasn’t all that interested in that aspect of his life. Quite the contrary. But listen, I’m sorry but I need to help these people.” She pointed over Jack’s shoulder at the customers standing in line.


“Okay, I understand,” Jack replied, stepping to the side. “Thank you for your time.” With that said, he dashed over to his bike, quickly wrestled it out through one of the glass entrance doors, and leaped on. Peddling hard in a standing position to get up to speed, he turned onto Main Street. He was eager to get to the park. As soon as he was able, he glanced at his watch. He was relieved. It was still just a few minutes before five o’clock, meaning he was going to be late but only by minutes.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 20


Thursday, July 24, 5:00 
p.m.


Essex Falls, New York


Just like the previous afternoon at the very same time, Alexei was sitting in the passenger seat of the Ram pickup truck with Dmitry driving, on their way to Bennet Park to play basketball. The difference was that today Alexei didn’t want to go whereas yesterday he did. Although it was flattering to a degree that Viktor was confident he could handle what was certain to be a tricky situation, Alexei didn’t share his confidence one iota. He knew that it was going to be nearly impossible to avoid talking with Jack, who specifically said yesterday afternoon when Alexei was trying to break away from him, that if Alexei played today, they could continue their conversation.


“Should I drop you off at the same spot?” Dmitry asked, breaking into Alexei’s worried thoughts.


“Yeah, sure,” Alexei responded. “And pick me up at the same place later after I text.”


“Got it,” Dmitry said, with an agreeable nod.


As opposed to yesterday, he was glad to have Dmitry drive. Alexei wanted the excuse of being picked up as a way of limiting any conversation with Jack, similar to how he used it the day before. Unfortunately, it was only going to work at the very end. How he was going to handle Jack during the course of play, he had no idea whatsoever.


“That was good news about the fermenter,” Dmitry said as they entered the western end of Main Street.


“For sure,” Alexei said. Earlier, after JD had departed following his surprise visit to the Bennet Estate, Alexei had gone back out to the barn to work as Viktor had ordered. He’d picked up where he’d left off in his attempt to get an idea of how the most recent batch of yeast was doing. Although he’d not been optimistic primarily because of the short time, to his surprise it was doing quite well. A small but definite amount of theta prion protein had been detected, suggesting the particular yeast cells that had picked up and incorporated the vectors that Viktor and Nikolai had produced Monday morning seemed to be quite robust both in their reproductive capacity and their protein expression capability. If all continued to go well, a prion harvest could be significantly sooner than Alexei anticipated, meaning their departure from Essex Falls was back on a reasonably imminent timetable.


Sensing that his partner was in a contemplative mood from his terse answers, Dmitry resisted any more attempts at conversation. It wasn’t until he pulled to a stop in front of the elementary school that he added: “I’ll be awaiting your text. Good luck!”


“I’m going to need it,” Alexei said as he slid out of the cab, slamming the door behind him and eyeing his watch. At least the timing was good. He skirted the brownstone school building along its eastern side and headed into the park. As was the case the previous 
day, the place was busy with almost all the facilities in use, including all six tennis courts and the two pickleball courts.


Pausing in the shadow of the same oak tree where he’d paused the day before, Alexei could see that quite a crowd of basketball players had already arrived. He quickly counted and saw that there were ten people, meaning that they would undoubtedly be playing five-on-five full court. Although he recognized most everyone, there was one individual whom he’d never seen before, a particularly muscular, middle-aged Black man whom he assumed was the “quite a player” JD had mentioned. This new individual was talking animatedly with Jack, who Alexei hoped to avoid as much as possible.


The group was in the process of picking sides, and as usual, Dr. Bob had taken command. Rather than walking ahead and joining and potentially being cornered by Jack, Alexei was content to remain where he was. Just as he expected, the crowd quickly separated into two groups of five and within a few minutes more began playing. Feeling it was now relatively safe to show his face, Alexei walked the final hundred feet or so to the basketball court and took a seat on the bleachers. Dr. Bob was the only person who seemed to notice his arrival and waved a greeting. Alexei waved back.


As Alexei sat there and watched the game progress, it was immediately apparent to him that JD had been correct about Jack’s friend being skilled. He’d been designated to be on the opposing side from Peter Ross, the best local player, and the two were guarding each other. Although the new fellow was significantly shorter than Peter, he was neutralizing Peter’s effectiveness by either preventing him from getting the ball or stealing it if he did. On offense, it seemed that whenever the new fellow got the ball, he scored, such that his team jumped out into the lead rather quickly.


Switching his attention to JD, he tried to strategize how he was going to achieve his goal of learning what JD knew about their origins without asking him directly, since doing so would draw unnatural attention to the issue. Unfortunately, nothing came to mind, making Alexei feel even more anger toward Viktor for putting the weight on his shoulders, and that was on top of Alexei already blaming Viktor for their still being in Essex Falls and not already back in beautiful, safe Mother Russia.


Although Alexei was watching JD purely as a strategizing aid about how to find out what he knew about the group’s true nationality, he suddenly became aware JD was playing significantly better than he had in the past, when he’d always seemed nonchalant, not caring if he was on the winning team or the losing team. On this occasion he seemed entirely different. He was focused and running circles around John Elliott, with whom he was typically paired since John played the way JD normally played, meaning they were evenly matched.


Mystified, Alexei continued to watch JD, who’d become a surprising scoring threat, and since he was on the same team as the new fellow, the lead that the new player had initiated grew even larger. Watching a particularly nice give-and-take between JD and the new player, Alexei couldn’t help but agree with Viktor that apparently going through Ethan Jameson’s papers and assuming the role as the Diehard Patriots commander had indeed inspired him. In the process it also had made him a potentially serious threat.


Since the modus operandi of the group was to play games to twelve baskets, it didn’t take long for the first five-on-five game to be finished, with JD, the new fellow, George Freeman, Peter Langley, and Dr. Bob the winners. Since Alexei would be playing in the next game, the five losers—Jack Stapleton, Peter Ross, Chris 
Nebolsine, Martin Gibson, and John Elliott—had to shoot foul shots to determine which four would be joining Alexei. It was all typical playground basketball rules.


While the losers were in the process, the five winners retreated to the other basket either to practice shooting or just bide their time until the second team’s composition was determined. Since Alexei knew he would be playing, he used the time not only to warm up but more important, to corner JD. Although it was out of character, he sidled up to JD while JD was taking practice shots.


“I couldn’t help but notice you played particularly well the first game,” Alexei said, pretending to be nonchalant and hoping that JD in his seemingly new persona might be amenable to praise.


“I was lucky enough to be on a particularly good team,” JD said modestly, even though he had scored a surprising number of baskets in contrast to his usual performance.


“The new player is quite good,” Alexei said.


“You mean Warren?” JD questioned. He nodded toward Warren, who was talking with Dr. Bob.


“If that’s his name,” Alexei said.


“Yeah, it’s his name,” JD said. “He’s phenomenal.”


Before Alexei could then casually raise the issue about what JD knew about their IDs, it was determined that John Elliott, the plumber, would be the one who had to sit out. With that settled Dr. Bob, always the organizer, quickly motivated everyone into beginning the second game, which included designating Alexei to guard JD. Alexei was pleased, as being paired with JD raised the possibility of him being able to ask his question in an offhand manner during the course of the play.


The second game turned out to be a mirror image of the first in that Warren, Dr. Bob, and JD continued their scoring binge and 
jumped out to a hefty lead despite Peter’s and Jack’s attempts to stay competitive. After one nice give-and-take involving JD and Dr. Bob, capped by a forceful dunk by Warren, Alexei found himself heading back to the other basket alongside a very contented JD. They were moving at a slow jog.


“Do you mind if I ask you a quick question?” Alexei began as offhand as he could.


“Of course,” JD responded.


“When you mentioned Ethan threatening to use our IDs with the police, what the hell could he have meant?”


JD stopped abruptly and turned to face Alexei. Alexei did the same. Several of the other players detoured around them.


“You know exactly what he meant,” JD said, pushing his face close to Alexei’s. “Do you think I’m a fool?”


“Certainly not,” Alexei said, recognizing instantly that JD undoubtedly knew their passports were bogus. Whether he knew they were from Russia and not the Netherlands, he didn’t know, nor did it matter. The damage was done. “In fact, we’re pleased you are taking over,” Alexei quickly added, hoping to defuse the situation by flattering JD.


“I hope so,” JD said. “But, to be clear, I want to see some real changes. I want the commander truly engaged with both the lectures and the maneuvers.”


“You can count on it,” Alexei said. “You heard Commander Mikhailov this afternoon. He’s busy putting together lecture suggestions as we speak. You’ll be able to choose which you think will be most helpful.”


“I hope so,” JD said as he abruptly recommenced heading toward the other basket. Everyone was doing the same, including Jack, who was approaching dribbling the ball.


JD’s team maintained their early lead, but Alexei’s heart wasn’t into it. After learning what he’d learned, he could not have cared less about the game’s outcome. All he could think about was texting Dmitry to come to pick him up, getting back to the Bennet Estate, and informing Viktor what he’d learned. Meanwhile he had to worry about avoiding Jack Stapleton as much as possible.


As the second game was nearing its inevitable conclusion, Alexei had a comforting idea. He was obviously on the losing team, so for the final, third game, he’d be required to shoot foul shots with the other losers to determine who would play and who would sit out. He could make sure he missed all foul shots, meaning it would be he who sat out the final game. If that were the case he could leave when he wanted and, as an added benefit, would avoid talking with Jack Stapleton entirely.


Unfortunately, things didn’t work out as Alexei envisioned. When the second game was over and before the foul shooting contest could begin, Chris Nebolsine informed the group that it was unnecessary since he had to leave. That meant that Alexei found himself playing in the third and final game whether he wanted to or not.


The third game turned out to be yet another repeat of the first two. Alexei didn’t help. Consumed by his own thoughts, he played poorly and JD was able to capitalize and scored at least half of his team’s baskets.


The moment the game was over, Alexei shunned the customary camaraderie of the others and made a beeline for the bleachers where he’d left his towel and mobile. Reaching it, he snapped up the phone and immediately sent the prepared text to Dmitry. He then winced when he heard his name called out. Turning around, he saw Jack Stapleton coming toward him, and he braced himself, 
terrified Jack would want to talk about Amsterdam and Alexei’s memorized details wouldn’t be convincing.


“Alexei!” Jack called out again as he neared. He was smiling broadly. “Sorry you got on the losing team with me and the others. At least we gave it our best.”


“It happens,” Alexei said philosophically.


“Indeed, it does,” Jack agreed. “I was hoping to see you today, so we could pick up our conversation where we left off yesterday.”


“We can for a moment or two,” Alexei said. “But my ride is already on its way to pick me up. I’m supposed to meet him in front of the school in minutes.”


“Okay then, I’ll be quick,” Jack said. “Yesterday I mentioned I was going to be autopsying Ethan Jameson this morning.”


“I remember,” Alexei said, feeling a minor jolt. Although he was thankful the conversation was so far not about Amsterdam or the Dutch language, he’d not expected it to be about Ethan Jameson. “How did the autopsy go? Were you able to learn how he managed to get himself killed?”


“Unfortunately, things didn’t go as planned,” Jack said. “Right before the autopsy was about to begin, it was discovered that his body had gone missing. Had you or your compatriots heard anything about this disappearance?”


“Missing!” Alexei said, feigning shock. “No! We’ve heard nothing of the kind, and we did meet with JD this afternoon. Does he know?”


“Yes, JD definitely knows,” Jack said.


“Then I’m surprised he didn’t tell us,” Alexei said. “We met with him about making some final lecture plans before we leave, so he had plenty of opportunity. That’s very strange. How could something like that happen in a small town like this? I can imagine it 
occurring in a large hospital like my own with bodies coming and going, but not in a small town. That’s freakish.”


“That’s our feeling as well,” Jack said. “It’s a confusing situation, particularly for Dr. Bob, who understandably feels responsible. I’m intent on finding out what the hell could have happened.”


“Well, I hope the body turns up,” Alexei said, motioning as if checking his watch. “I’m sorry, but I need to be on my way. My commander holds dinner for me.”


“Of course,” Jack said. “One other question, but first a bit of background. Last night during a barbecue dinner the police chief happened to mention that during his interview with Janet Huber, he’d been told that the morning of Ethan Jameson’s death he’d been very angry at your commander.”


“I’m not surprised,” Alexei said, feeling the need to say something since Jack had paused, causing him to feel progressively anxious about the upcoming question, fearing his answer might be self-incriminating because he was the one who decided to kill Ethan.


“Chief Hargrove went on to say that the reason Ethan Jameson was angry was because your commander wasn’t attending the Diehard Patriots’ activities. Instead, he was spending progressively more and more time in a home brewery. Is that true in your estimation?”


“Absolutely!” Alexei blurted out. “It’s true. Ethan had even expressed his anger to me about the same issues on several occasions, which I passed on to the commander, but the commander chose to ignore it.” Inwardly Alexei relaxed a degree since the question had been relatively easy to answer, although it was worrisome that Jack was in any way associating Ethan’s death with them. At the same time, he complimented himself for having decided to buy a 
fermenter with JD’s help through JD’s parents’ hardware store rather than a more expensive bioreactor from the scientific supply company in Albany. In so doing it had inadvertently created the unexpected additional benefit of JD raising the brewery idea. He shuddered to think of what might have happened had he bought a bioreactor, and JD had somehow learned of it.


Jack stared at him for a couple of beats. He then took in a deep breath and let it out slowly before shaking his head. “I’m sorry, but it all seems rather bizarre to me. For your commander to offer to help the Diehard Patriots and come all this way across the Atlantic Ocean and be in a particularly gorgeous mountain environment in the middle of the summer and yet want to spend time indoors making beer, especially when there are so many terrific commercial craft beers available, makes no sense.”


“It makes no sense to me, either,” Alexei said with an agreeable nod. “And to be honest, just between us, it has irritated me as well. With the commander and his second in command occupied with his beer-making passion, it’s created significantly more of a burden for me and my partner. Dealing with the ridiculous Diehard Patriots has ended up falling on the two of us alone, and let me tell you, keeping these amateurs and ourselves reasonably safe has been one hell of a struggle.”


“I can imagine,” Jack said, “but why then do you and your partner also remain so cloistered in the Bennet Estate? Why don’t at least you two take advantage of what this area has to offer?”


“That’s a fair question,” Alexei agreed. “First of all, the Diehard Patriot maneuvers are all held at night, so on those occasions my partner and I sleep during the day. Second, we stay on the Bennet Estate’s grounds specifically because the commander directly orders us to do so. He knows this is a small, isolated town with an 
anti-immigrant and anti-foreign orientation, and he’s committed for us to not be intrusive. Giving in to my pleading and allowing me to play basketball is his only concession. But it’s also true that Bennet Estate is like being at a luxury spa, so staying there is hardly an imposition.”


“Okay, fair enough,” Jack said with a nod and a broad smile. “Since I’m staying at a remarkably similar property on the very same lake, I can mostly agree. If your quarters are like ours, it is a luxury spa, and particularly yours with its diving board.” Jack laughed outright. “To be honest,” he added, “I’m jealous of your diving board. When I was a teenager, a springboard was a central fixture of my summertime.”


Alexei managed a nervous chuckle. “The diving board is a particularly nice amenity that I have enjoyed.” In the back of his mind, he was thinking more about how handy it had been helping to dispose of Ethan Jameson’s corpse.


“I’m sure I would do the same,” Jack said. “But before you go, let me pay you and your comrades a compliment. Just prior to coming here for basketball, I stopped in to see the police chief, Bill Hargrove. You should know that he specifically compliments you folks for what you have managed to do with the Diehard Patriots. Although their nighttime activities have increased during your stay, he pointed out that there’s been no accidents and particularly no fatalities, and he gives full credit for this to you and your compatriots.”


“Thank you for telling me,” Alexei said as he started to back away. “I’ll pass that on to the others, particularly the commander. When we originally arrived, we were shocked at exactly how ragtag they were and how carelessly they handled their weapons.”


“If we play over the weekend, I hope to see you again,” Jack called out as he waved goodbye.


Alexei waved back but quickly turned and beat a hasty retreat out of the park. He was enormously relieved that he’d not been dragged into a conversation about Amsterdam, or Holland in general, or the Dutch language. At the same time the conversation had disturbed him.


As he normally did when leaving, he rapidly skirted the Margery Malone school and emerged onto Main Street. He was relieved to see Dmitry already waiting for him, and he wasted no time climbing into the truck’s cab.


“Well, what’s the story?” Dmitry questioned even before he finished backing out of the parking spot.


“It’s not good,” Alexei admitted. As Dmitry accelerated, Alexei gave him an abbreviated version of what he learned from both JD and the New York City forensic pathologist. Dmitry audibly groaned when Alexei finished.


Serving as yet another repeat of the previous day’s events, when they got back to the Bennet Estate, Alexei made the same beeline into the kitchen, where Viktor and Nikolai were again pretending to be gourmet chefs. On this occasion they were making Russian dumplings called pelmeni with Viktor creating the stuffing while Nikolai was producing the dough. The moment Alexei appeared, they put aside what they were doing, and all four took bar seats at the island.


“I can sense you are not bringing us good news,” Viktor said with a serious expression. He entwined his fingers and leaned forward on his forearms, staring directly across the granite expanse at Alexei.


In contrast to how he’d summarized what he learned for Dmitry, Alexei provided a word-for-word recounting of his interaction with JD. When he’d finished, he added that it was his sense that although 
he didn’t know whether JD knew they were Russian, he was certain JD knew that their passports were bogus.


“I’m not surprised,” Viktor said, using a particularly serious tone. “This is not good news. It means that we’re totally at the mercy of an obviously unstable individual. With that said, I ask you again, when can we expect a decent harvest of the theta prion so we’ll know when we can flee this godforsaken town?”


“And I tell you again, it can’t even be estimated after one inaccurate determination of the current prion concentration. I was amazed I was able to detect any theta this soon, which is a tribute to this specific culture that’s resulted, but it doesn’t predict the future. Tomorrow morning, I can do another determination and then plot the concentration against time with the two points, which might give us a vague idea. But as I’m certain you know, two readings are hardly enough with so many variables involved such that it will be more of a guess than a determination.”


“Okay, I understand,” Viktor said. “The die is cast. With that kind of uncertainty, we can’t risk allowing a wildcard like JD to exist. He’s like the sword of Damocles for us. He has to be sacrificed for us to do one more release, which I’m insisting on.”


“How do you propose we eliminate him?” Nikolai asked, sotto voce. He too leaned forward on his forearms.


“We’ll use the Novichok again,” Viktor said. “This is exactly what it was originally designed for, namely eliminating problem people like dissidents, nonconformists, and traitors. Alexei, I want you to call JD in the morning and arrange for him to come back here. You can use the pretense of presenting the series of final lectures. We’ll use enough Novichok to make sure he doesn’t leave. My sense is that he won’t be missed for a few days. What’s your take in that regard, Alexei?”


“I agree!” Alexei said. “Without doubt he won’t be missed as he frequently disappears that amount of time. He’s the quintessential loner with a haphazard schedule. He only works at his parents’ hardware store when he feels like it, and lately he hasn’t felt like it. He lives alone in an apartment over a garage on the outskirts of town. The basketball group might miss him, but I’m not sure if they will be playing over the weekend or not. They usually don’t.”


“What will we do with him once he’s history?” Dmitry asked. “Have him join Ethan Jameson?” He smiled. He was enjoying giving himself credit for figuring out what to do with the Jameson corpse.


Viktor chuckled at the suggestion. “Why not? They were partners in life so why not in death. Which reminds me: Has anyone checked on our permanent visitor?”


“I did,” Alexei said. “This morning when I used the diving board. When the water’s calm and the sunlight just right, he can just barely be seen. Apparently putrefaction gases are causing him to be like a balloon on a tether. Luckily it’s as deep as it is.”


“That’s an eerie image,” Nikolai said. “What about the fish. Any activity?”


“Oh, yeah!” Alexei said. “They are having a heyday, especially the larger trout.”


“Well, it was the perfect solution to what could have been a problem,” Viktor said.


“Thank you,” Dmitry said with a self-satisfied smile.


“I have one more issue,” Alexei said.


Viktor, who had slid off his bar stool with the intent to get back to his pelmeni stuffing, regained it. “Okay! What’s on your mind?”


“I don’t want to be an alarmist,” Alexei said, “but the forensic pathologist from New York troubles me even though we’ve denied him his autopsy.”


“How so?” Viktor asked.


“He asked me directly if I knew about Ethan’s body disappearing,” Alexei said.


“I assume you said no,” Viktor responded.


“Of course I said no,” Alexei said. “But just his asking me was worrisome enough, especially when he mentioned Ethan being angry at you for spending time in the supposed brewery the morning he died. He’s obviously taken Ethan’s body disappearing personally, and I sense that he’s the embodiment of that English expression ‘a dog with a bone.’ I was relieved when he didn’t want to talk about Amsterdam today, which was what I feared, but I sense this could be just as bad associating us in any way with Ethan’s death and possibly his corpse’s disappearance.”


“I’m not concerned about this brewery nonsense that JD has concocted,” Viktor said. “In a way it’s helpful for giving a rationale for my absence from the Diehard Patriots’ operations rather than pure disinterest. With theta prion already detected in our current batch of recombinant yeast, we’re only looking at a couple more days. I can’t imagine this pathologist can make any headway figuring out anything unless he comes to us directly. If he does, then we’ll deal with him as needed. We have more than enough Novichok.”


“Yes, sir,” Alexei said dutifully, but he was hardly convinced. If Dr. Stapleton solved medical mysteries the way he played basketball, he would prove to be a worrisome threat.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 21


Friday, July 25, 5:40 
a.m.


Hiram House


Hamilton County, New York


The moment the first rays of sun streamed through the east-facing windows in Jack and Laurie’s bedroom, Jack’s eyes blinked open. Without a moment’s hesitation, he slipped out of bed and hustled barefooted over to the velvet blackout curtains that he had purposefully left open, and careful to be as silent as possible, he closed them. Although he had wanted to wake up with the sun, he knew that Laurie certainly wouldn’t, as he’d been vaguely aware she had read her Jane Austen novel late into the night.


With newly gained freedom to indulge his growing interest in Bob’s fascinating and developing conundrums, there were several things he was eager to do: Chief among them was to meet with Melanie to learn what he could about the dementia patients. He also had hopes of a breakthrough involving Ethan Jameson’s AWOL body. If and when that turned up, he was more eager than ever to 
assist Bob with the autopsy. As far as Laurie was concerned, she had made plans to go on a hike with Carol to a series of connected waterfalls called the Cascades. Carol had lauded it as the best and most scenic hike in the entire area.


With the drapes taken care of, Jack moved on “little cat feet” into the attached changing room where he and Laurie were living out of their carry-on bags. After closing the connecting French doors, he changed out of his pajamas and into his swimsuit. Like the previous morning, he was intent on taking a wake-up swim. From the linen closet just outside the massive master bathroom, he took a fresh towel.


Out in the hall, he checked to make certain Warren and Jada’s door was closed and even paused for a few beats to see if he heard any sounds of movement within. The night before, Jada had said that if she was awake, she’d join him, but Jack didn’t hear a peep. Warren had said that the only way he would do it was under the threat of death. Their plan for the day was to drive over to Lake Placid, which Google Maps said was a two-hour drive. They both had heard kudos about it but had never seen it.


Once outside, Jack paused briefly to appreciate the view of the calm lake, the distant Adirondack Mountains, and the dawning day. It promised again to be gorgeous weather. At the moment there wasn’t a cloud in the sky, but he guessed cumulus clouds like yesterday’s would gather as the temperature climbed. Even though the sun was just peeking over the eastern horizon, he could already sense its summertime intensity.


Glancing to the left he was able to catch a glimpse of the pool, pool house, barbecue, and firepit through the birch trees. Seeing the area reminded him of the pleasant time they’d had the night before with their barbecue, thanks to Jada’s generosity and the 
fabulous New York strip steaks she’d brought. Bob and Carol had come along with Melanie, so had Bill and Grace. The person Jack had not expected was Janet Huber. In the rush to get ready, Laurie had forgotten to tell him that she and Jada had met Janet at Pilates and had been so impressed with her that they’d invited her.


Jack had been particularly happy she had come and not only because she was an extremely pleasant person to be around but also because he’d been able to finish his conversation with her concerning Ethan Jameson. Thanks to her, Jack had learned that Ethan had been an exceptionally fiery individual who was quick to anger and quick to act out, and as far as she was concerned, these characteristics had been getting worse and not better. Even more upsetting from her point of view was that he was also becoming progressively more misogynistic along with being receptive to white supremacist ideology, and she blamed this on his interaction with the militiamen from Holland. In response, Jack had communicated to her his surprise from having found one of the militiamen, Alexei, to be reserved but personable and respectful like all the Dutch people Jack had met when he’d visited Amsterdam. At that point Janet admitted that she’d not met any of the Netherlanders in person and only heard about them through Ethan, so she was quick to admit that her impression they were to blame could very well be unfounded.


Turning his attention away from the memory of the dinner party, Jack looked back at the lake. As the sun had now completely cleared the eastern horizon, the color of its mirror-like surface had changed from its original dull gray to an intense cerulean blue.


Eager to get into the water, Jack jogged down to the dock. Skirting the overturned canoe, he went out to the end and put his towel on one of the Adirondack chairs. Turning around, he then put his toes over the end of the dock, pretending it was a diving board, and 
prepared himself for an invigorating plunge. But then he held back. Thinking about a diving board made him focus across the lake at the Bennet Estate, and just as he did so, he could just make out someone using the springboard. Because of the distance there was no sound. Feeling a tinge of inappropriate jealousy, he found himself wondering if it was Alexei and guessed it was from what the man had said the previous afternoon. Storing the image in his mind, Jack decided to ask him the next time he saw him at basketball if it had been he using the board early Friday morning.


Jack stared at the canoe for a moment, and the idea briefly passed through his mind to put the boat in the water and paddle across the lake to ask Alexei to use the springboard. But then reality stepped in. Paddling a canoe the half-mile or so across the lake would take too much time, meaning Alexei, if it even was him, would have long since gone into the house. That would mean Jack would be using the diving board without permission, which he thought would be rather presumptuous. With a shake of his head, he turned back around. After just barely seeing whoever it was make yet another dive, Jack dove into the lake himself.


Descending down somewhere around ten feet, enough to be forced to clear his ears, Jack was surprised at how cold the water was. Surfacing, he then vigorously swam out from the dock some forty or fifty feet, expending maximum effort to generate significant heat. Turning around, he swam back at the same pace and then immediately hoisted himself out of the water. So much for his morning swim.


Back in the house, he returned to the master bath. After shaving and quickly showering, he dressed. Following a check on Laurie, who had not moved, as well as another fruitless listen outside Warren and Jada’s room for any sounds, he descended to the kitchen 
and made himself a quick but substantial breakfast. He then left a short note on the refrigerator saying he’d gone into town and would be at the Bennet Clinic. Twenty minutes later he was on his Trek, leaving the Cherokee for Laurie.


The ride was a joy, and once again Jack cycled at an impressive speed but still was capable of enjoying the remarkable scenery sprinkled with morning dew. By then the sun had climbed significantly, and a few small cumulus clouds had already formed over the reservoir. When he reached Main Street he didn’t slow down as there was almost no traffic. The only establishment that showed any activity was Ted’s Diner, apparently offering breakfast to a few early risers.


As Jack approached the end of Main Street, he began to coast. As he banked into the turn at Bennet Avenue, he applied his brakes. A split second later he came to an abrupt stop abreast the clinic’s double doors. Planning on putting his bike in the same empty office as he had the previous day, Jack reached out and gave one of the double doors a good yank. To his surprise it didn’t budge. He tried the other. A moment later it dawned on him that Melanie had yet to arrive.


For a moment Jack stood at the Bennet Clinic entrance and chided himself for not checking with Melanie what time she might arrive that morning. He glanced at his watch. It was still significantly before eight. Imagining that she’d arrive by eight as she’d said when they first met, he debated what to do in the interim. His first thought was to extend his morning bicycle ride by doing a loop on the scenic road that ran the length of the Bennet Reservoir along its northern shore.


To get there, he first had to pedal along the entire length of the abandoned Bennet factory building. As he did so, he again 
appreciated its size and that it was going to make a unique five-star hotel with an interesting history. Just beyond it was a squat, acre-sized, single-story building made of identical brick with similar architectural details that he hadn’t specifically noticed before. Carved into the granite lintel over its double front door was 
Bennet Municipal Water Department
.


Just as he suspected, the ride out along the reservoir was gorgeous, with the road staying close to the water. As he neared the eastern end and mildly out of breath, Jack glanced at his watch and saw that just about half the time until eight o’clock had passed. Slowing down enough to make a U-turn, he accelerated back the way he’d come.


On this occasion as he approached the Bennet Clinic, he saw a blue Honda Civic parked in the building’s parking lot that hadn’t been there earlier. Encouraged, he dismounted and tried the front doors. They were now unlocked.


After storing his Trek in the empty office suite he’d used the previous day, Jack searched for Melanie. He found her in the procedure room making coffee in an old-fashioned percolator. When he called attention to the aged appliance, she explained that it had belonged to her grandmother, and despite its age, in her estimation, it still produced the absolute best tasting brew.


“I wanted to thank you for inviting me to your barbecue last night,” Melanie continued. “I had a marvelous time, and the steaks were out of this world. And on top of that, I appreciated seeing the Hiram House and grounds. It’s imposing to say the least. I’d not seen it since its renovation.”


“It was a pleasure to have you,” Jack responded. “The real thanks go to Jada for bringing the steaks and Bob who insisted on being the chef.


“Now, let me ask you: How did you do yesterday afternoon gathering the material we discussed?”


“Not great,” Melanie admitted. “I heard Bob telling you last night that we had another mild emergency here in the office late yesterday afternoon of a patient worried he was having a heart attack. Luckily it turned out to be a false alarm, but by the time the episode was over, I had to get home. But I did get to print out the electronic records of all fourteen dementia cases as well as the town assessor’s map that I told you about. The map includes the entire town and surrounding area. I can help you locate where each of the dementia patients live before Bob arrives from his hospital rounds and the morning appointments begin.


“As for the patients’ unique eating habits, I glanced at Bob’s history on several of the printouts and didn’t see any such references. Nor did I recognize anyone as being deer hunters. I’m afraid for such specific information, we’ll have to contact each family and ask directly, although the one thing I can assure you, everyone in town gets all their food from a combination of Huber Convenience Store here in Essex Falls and the Nicolson Supermarket in Indian River.”


“Fair enough,” Jack said agreeably. He wasn’t averse to making the effort to call families. It would give him something to do. He was feeling mildly stymied being in such a foreign environment and not his usual familiar stomping ground, New York City.


While Melanie finished up with the coffee making, Jack went out to the waiting room and carried one of the many mismatched chairs over to her desk, where a stack of patient records was front and center. No sooner had he taken a seat than Melanie appeared with two mugs of coffee and handed one to him. “I know you didn’t ask for this but I want you to try it,” she said with a broad confident smile. “I’m sure you’ll say it’s the best coffee you’ve ever had.”


Jack laughed as he took the cup. He liked her style.


“Here’s what I suggest,” Melanie said as she sat down and moved the mound of patient records over in front of Jack. “You read out the name and address, and I’ll circle the location on the map with a red marking pencil. This will be the most efficient way since I know the area like the back of my hand.”


As Melanie predicted the process proceeded apace, and after just a few minutes, Jack read out the final name, “Gloria Hosbrook,” and the address: “Seventeen Chestnut Street.”


“Okay!” Melanie said, making the final circle around Seventeen Chestnut Street, which was perpendicular to Acorn Street where the Jamesons lived. She then picked up the map and put it down in front of Jack. “Take a look at this. It’s curious, and not what I expected.”


“That is curious,” Jack said, staring down at the map. It was oriented as usual with north facing upward, and it extended from the empty Bennet factory building at the far right-hand side along with a slice of the reservoir all the way out to a bit beyond the Bennet Estate on the far left. The vast majority of the map represented the thinly populated, wooded suburbs. The actual town itself including Main Street and all the smaller streets on the north side occupied a relatively small area. The outline of each individual house was only large enough to contain its street number. Curiously, all the red pencil circles were clustered around homes within the relatively small area of tract housing.


“All fourteen cases are in town, not one in the countryside,” Melanie said. “Does that surprise you?”


“To an extent,” Jack said, “but it’s also true that the vast majority of Essex Falls residents live in town, which is probably the explanation. What surprises me more is learning about the Irvines, both 
the husband and wife suffering onset of the same sudden dementia within a week of each other. Becoming ill almost at the same time certainly says it’s not a genetic problem but rather an acquired one, meaning they both had been exposed to the same prion source around the same time.”


“Yikes, that’s scary,” Melanie said with a shiver.


“It sure is,” Jack responded. “I worry that we’re witnessing the beginning of a problem similar to that disastrous mad cow disease episode in England, and I’m feeling more and more desperate to find out what could possibly be the source. I’ve got to get on the phone and maybe even make some house calls to see if I can find some common thread involving some kind of incriminating food. There has to be an explanation. When I spoke to the neuropathologist at the OCME, she told me that pork or deer could be a source.”


“I’m happy to help with the calling until Bob gets here,” Melanie said. “I know just about everybody on a first-name basis, which should make it a lot easier and quicker.”


“Without doubt,” Jack said. “Let’s do it. It’s still early enough to catch most people at home.”




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 22


Friday, July 25, 2:15 
p.m.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


It had already been a reasonably productive day as far as JD was concerned as he turned his aged Lexus, which had been his mother’s, into the serpentine Bennet Estate driveway. He’d gotten in touch with Brent Phillips to discuss the truck issue. As Commander Mikhailov had correctly surmised, offering the money completely eased Brent’s insistent desire to get the vehicle back. On the contrary, he’d immediately accepted JD’s suggested offer of a hundred dollars a day. JD hoped it was going to be acceptable to the commander.


As JD neared the Bennet House, he was convinced the day was going to get even better despite the nervousness he always felt in the commander’s presence. Late that morning, he’d received a call from Alexei, who said that the commander had come up with a number of potential lectures that he was proposing to give to the Diehard Patriots as well as several potential dates for the next 
combat tactic operation that he would personally lead. Alexei had then told JD to come by around 2:00 
p.m
. to meet with the commander and make some choices in both categories. He was also asked to bring Ethan’s notes and records so they could compare them with their own. Without a second’s hesitation, JD had agreed. He was thrilled but tense. He was the first to admit that the commander seriously intimidated him.


After parking, JD spent a minute gazing through the windshield up at the house, which appeared to him to be the ultimate horror movie set with all its towers, pointy doors, and odd decorations, all of which aggravated his nervousness. As he sat there, it also seemed mildly ironic that for him to get invited to the house, Ethan would have to die and JD would have had to show up on their doorstep the day before uninvited and force himself to make somewhat of a stink.


At that point JD’s main concern was wondering exactly how he would make the lecture choices beyond using his childhood standby, “eeny, meeny, miny, moe.” As he fully admitted, he was next to illiterate about military matters in general, as he hadn’t spent time online reading up on the subject like Ethan had. Before being forced to become the Diehard Patriots’ head by necessity, he really hadn’t cared about any of it, and although he’d attended the few lectures the commander had given back when he first arrived, JD hadn’t really listened.


What had added considerably to Alexei’s call, as far as JD was concerned, had been its unexpected cordiality. Up until that particular phone call, Alexei had never expressed any sense of friendship or camaraderie. In all previous interactions, he’d answer questions but generally didn’t ask them. This call had been different. He’d even asked JD out of the blue if he liked to swim and if he had a swimsuit. JD wasn’t much of a swimmer, but he had a 
bathing suit, and he certainly wasn’t going to pass up an opportunity to interact with the Netherlanders, especially if it might include the commander. So, JD had agreed to bring a swimsuit, and at that moment, he reached over onto the passenger seat and grabbed it along with Ethan’s folder full of his notes. He then slid out from behind the steering wheel of the aged car and slammed the door. Once outside, he took a deep, fortifying breath before starting for the back door. He felt distinctly out of his element with these people, and although it hadn’t particularly bothered him before he became the Diehard Patriots head, it did now. It was a stress for him to act as if he knew what he was doing, and on top of that they were the first foreigners he’d ever met.


On the previous afternoon, he’d just walked up to the rear door and pounded on it, and he decided to do the same that day. He wondered briefly if there was a doorbell or intercom at the formal front door and if that would be a more appropriate way to announce himself, but he decided not to make the effort to check. As it turned out, he didn’t need to worry. As he mounted the steps to the porch, the rear door opened and there was Alexei holding it open for him with a welcoming smile. It was as if he’d been watching out for him. JD smiled awkwardly in return.


“Great to see you,” Alexei said. “Come on in! Can we offer you a cold one?” As somewhat of a linguist, speaking English, German, and Uzbek in addition to Russian, he’d picked up a few local American colloquialisms.


“I’m good,” JD said as he passed Alexei and entered the house. Walking through the mudroom and a portion of the storeroom, he entered the kitchen, where he found Viktor, Nikolai, and Dmitry sitting at the granite topped island almost as if they hadn’t left it from the previous afternoon.


Not knowing what to do, JD nervously started to salute, but since he’d never been told exactly how to salute, he felt self-conscious and didn’t follow through. Instead, he ran his hand through his mop of hair as if that was what he had intended to do in the first place.


“Welcome and please sit down!” Viktor said, gesturing toward the same chair JD had occupied the previous day. If he had noticed JD’s awkward half-salute, he didn’t call attention to it. In front of him was a stack of papers.


As JD took his seat, Alexei put an open bottle of Bud Light on the counter in front of him even though JD thought he’d declined the offer.


“I’ll take your bathing suit if you don’t mind,” Alexei said, holding it aloft. He’d picked it up from where JD had placed it on the neighboring, empty barstool after putting Ethan’s folder on the countertop. “I’ll take it down to the changing room, where there are some lockers. We’ll swim after our meeting.”


JD nodded but didn’t respond—clearly out of his element and a bit overwhelmed—while Alexei disappeared. If it had just been Alexei and Dmitry, he would have been fine. It was the commander and to a lesser extent his lieutenant who unnerved him without knowing exactly why.


“The easiest decision today will probably be when to hold the next nighttime Diehard Patriots operation, which I would like to center around the concept of discipline,” Viktor began as he held aloft the top sheaf of papers from the stack in front of him. “The earliest it could happen would be next Wednesday. What I’m thinking we can do is plan either Wednesday or Thursday night, avoiding Friday and Saturday, which Ethan had convinced us was not good for the Diehard Patriots rank and file. Is that a fair assumption?”


“Yes,” JD said, but to get the response out he had to clear his throat. “Yes, Friday and Saturday are social nights.”


“Understood,” Viktor said but not without a roll of his eyes for Nikolai’s benefit but which JD couldn’t help but notice. “Back to the issue at hand: Wednesday or Thursday night? Which one would you prefer?”


“Wednesday,” JD said without hesitation. For him sooner was preferrable. He felt the faster things were underway the better.


“Fine!” Viktor said. “Wednesday it is.” He then leaned across the table to scoot the description of the operation in JD’s direction. “You don’t have to look at this proposal now. Take it with you and go over it at your leisure. If you have any comments or suggestions just let Alexei know and he can tell me, and I’ll incorporate them.”


JD picked up the attached papers, glanced at the top one but then put them back down on the countertop. Instead, he took a pull on his beer to appear relaxed and glanced back across at Viktor, Nikolai, and Dmitry, who were all staring at him intently. At that point Alexei returned and took his seat, which made JD feel marginally better.


“The rest of these papers are suggestions for the weekend lectures,” Viktor explained as he held them up. “I strongly suggest we don’t overdo it in terms of lectures in consideration of your membership. Perhaps two would be enough for your group, one on Saturday and another on Sunday, and you can choose the two from among the twelve I’ve briefly outlined in these pages. They fall into two major categories and for you to pick a lecture from each would be the smartest. Are you with me?”


“Yes, sir,” JD blurted.


“The first group deals with basic militia organizational skills, all of which the Diehard Patriots significantly lack. These include issues 
such as discipline, functioning as a group to maintain order, and even the ability to understand and follow orders. I know that such subjects don’t sound entertaining, but they are the backbone of a militia organization. Understood?”


“Yes, sir,” JD repeated.


“The second group of lectures are definitely sexier,” Viktor said, and Nikolai nodded in agreement. “Here we could offer such subjects as basic explosives and demolition, appropriate use of grenades, better rifles than AR-15s, or basic hit-and-run tactics, plus a number of others as you’ll see. My suggestion is that you take this collection home and decide which two you prefer sometime later this afternoon and let Alexei know. Or we can do it now. One way or the other you have to decide by tonight, so I can prepare adequately for tomorrow. Do you have a preference?”


“I don’t know,” JD said. “Do you have a preference?”


“Not necessarily,” Viktor said. “I encourage you to take them with you when you leave and spend an hour or two deciding at your leisure. As I said, you can then let Alexei know, and we’ll go from there.”


“Okay, fine,” JD said.


Viktor leaned forward once again and sent this larger bundle of papers sliding over in JD’s direction. JD reached out and pulled it over to himself, glancing at the one on top. It was a lecture about discipline, and he inwardly groaned. He couldn’t imagine he would find it interesting and doubted if any of the other Diehard Patriots would, yet what did he know?


“Okay,” Alexei said. “Very good work, everyone. Excellent job! Now it’s time for some fun. How about that swim we talked about, JD? We have a first-rate diving board. Are you a diver by any chance?”


“No, never,” JD admitted. “I’m not much of a swimmer to be honest. Lake water always seems so damn cold to me.”


“Not a problem,” Alexei said, suddenly feeling nervous. He glanced briefly at Viktor and could easily guess what the commander was thinking about all the Diehard Patriots before Alexei returned his attention back to JD. “The water here at our lake is really warm,” he said encouragingly, “especially along the surface where we swim. And today couldn’t be a better day for swimming. As you could tell when you were outside, the weather is perfect. It must be almost thirty degrees—I mean, eighty-five degrees.” He laughed at himself as he slid off his barstool for using Celsius instead of Fahrenheit. “Can I offer you another beer?”


“No, this was plenty,” JD said, waving off Alexei’s offer as he got to his feet. Building his courage, he looked across the island at the others and asked: “Will any of you be joining us for a swim? How about you, Commander?”


Viktor’s response was to glance immediately over at Alexei while raising his eyebrows questioningly. Alexei subtly but rapidly nodded several times, hoping that Viktor would get the hint to agree to the swim idea as Alexei was convinced that if Viktor did, JD would drop any and all hesitancy. The problem was that if JD were to turn down swimming, there’d be a crisis as they wouldn’t be able to allow JD’s swimsuit off the premises. Using the swimsuit for the Novichok rather than underwear had been a last-minute decision by Alexei when he put JD’s trunks in the changing room.


“Yes, I believe I will come for a swim,” Viktor said, taking the cue from Alexei despite not understanding why. “But I have something I must do first. You and Alexei head out, and I’ll meet you down at the dock.”


“Terrific,” JD said sincerely. The prospect of shared leisure time gave him a reassuring sense of acceptance by these legitimate militiamen.


“Terrific!” Alexei repeated, much relieved. He had no idea what he would have done had JD refused to take a swim. “Follow me! The changing rooms are down a level.” Waving over his shoulder, he led JD first out into the main hallway and then behind the grand staircase where there was an open stair down to the basement level. After passing through the monstrous game room with its Ping-Pong, pool, and billiards tables and then down a short hallway, Alexei directed JD into the men’s changing room.


“This house is something else,” JD said as he entered and glanced around at the profusion of polished mahogany lockers. To his right at the rear of the room was an alcove with a washer and dryer and an open cabinet full of beach towels. At the far end of the room was a glazed door with five stone steps visible outside leading up to the lawn level. Running down the center of the room was a bench with JD’s bathing suit meticulously laid out approximately midway. As JD came abreast of it, he noticed that even the drawstrings were nestled together, causing him to silently marvel. His possessions had never been treated with such respect and attention.


“Choose a locker and get changed,” Alexei directed. “I’ve got to get my bathing suit out of the dryer.”


JD made quick work of his clothes and pulled on his bathing suit, cinching up the drawstrings. He then arranged his clothes in one of the lockers. He was aware of Alexei doing the same. When JD was finished, he glanced over at Alexei who was nearly ready.


“Do you think the commander is still planning on swimming?” JD asked. For him it was going to make a big difference if the man changed his mind and didn’t show up.


“He said he was,” Alexei said as he put his things in a locker and closed the door. “But his not being here means nothing. He doesn’t 
use the changing room. He prefers to keep his bathing suit in his bathroom.” Alexei shrugged as if it was something he didn’t understand.


“I hope he joins us,” JD said simply.


“Are you ready?” Alexei questioned to change the subject.


“Ready as I’ll ever be,” JD said.


Alexei waved before guiding the way to the door leading outside. JD followed a few steps but then paused. Alexei opened the door and stepped to the side for JD to precede him. That was when he noticed that JD had stopped. Not only had he stopped but he had a peculiar expression on his face as if he was baffled about something, something serious.


“What’s up?” Alexei asked.


“I feel strange, very strange all over,” JD managed with some effort, bringing his right hand up to his mouth and pressing the palm side of his fingers tightly against his lips. “And my mouth is watering suddenly, like a lot, and the room has gone dim. What happened? Is there something weird with the lights?”


“The lights haven’t changed,” Alexei said. He quickly reclosed the outer door and stepped back to face JD. That was when he saw the first spasms starting on JD’s thighs and abdomen and then spreading rapidly up into his chest and upper arms and even into his cheeks, distorting his face.


In the next instant the man began to profusely sweat and his pupils had shrunk down to become mere black dots. And then most distressing of all, JD began to scream in agony, clutching at the base of his throat before reaching out with both hands and grabbing Alexei’s upper arm in a death grip.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 23


Friday, July 25, 2:55 
p.m.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


“It was terrible,” Alexei said. “I’ve never seen anything like it. I had no idea that Novichok had that kind of effect on a person. I just assumed they passed out, and that was it. But, oh no, it was more like torture.” He shuddered yet again as the image of JD’s death struggles replayed in his mind.


“Did you use a large dose?” Viktor asked. He, Alexei, Nikolai, and Dmitry were standing outside the closed changing room door. Alexei had shut it behind himself when he fled from JD’s clutches. He’d then held it shut for the minute or two that JD had tried to open it while screaming in pain. When all was quiet within and Alexei surmised the Novichok had accomplished its dirty work, he’d gone upstairs to get the others.


“Yes,” Alexei admitted. “I wanted to be sure it worked quickly. To make certain it got good dispersal, I made it into a powder and put it inside the lining of his bathing suit.”


“It took me a while to get the message,” Viktor said.


“I’m glad you did,” Alexei said. “I was worried he was about to nix the idea of swimming after I’d gone ahead and prepared his bathing suit. You agreeing to swim with us pushed him over the edge. Using the bathing suit seemed like a far better idea than using his underwear. By taking care of him before swimming, it will give us more time to do what we need to do to cover our tracks, like dealing with his car.”


“Resourceful,” Viktor said in a commending tone. He then leaned forward and put his ear to the door and listened for a moment. “All quiet within,” he added. “We should be good to go.”


“I brought latex surgical gloves and aprons from the barn,” Alexei said as he handed them out. “I don’t imagine there’ll be any spillage but there’s no reason to take chances until we do a formal cleanup.”


All four people donned the protective gear before Viktor opened the door. They found JD in a heap between the door and the bench. Except that he was pale and slick with perspiration, he appeared normal although he was not breathing and his pupils were pinpoint. While Dmitry went to open the outside door, Alexei closed JD’s eyes. He didn’t like them staring up at him accusatorily.


With a person at each extremity and a bit of a struggle, they managed to get JD up the five steps to the lawn and then down to the dock, where they laid him on the planking.


“I want him to join his buddy feeding the fishes as soon as possible,” Viktor said, mildly out of breath from effort. “Hop to it!”


“It’s going to be more difficult without the benefit of rigor mortis,” Alexei pointed out. “Don’t expect miracles! We have to push him off the end of the diving board for the water to be deep enough.”


“With the four of us, we’ll manage,” Viktor said. “Get what you need to get.”


Revisiting their roles, Alexei went to the barn for a length of rope while Dmitry returned to the back of the house to get one of the spare cinder blocks. When they returned, they were surprised but pleased that Viktor and Nikolai had managed to get JD lying supine with his head hyperextended out over the end of the diving board. When Alexei complimented their efforts, Viktor complained it hadn’t been his idea. He was obviously not in the best of moods. “Hurry up and get this over with,” he ordered, peeling off his gown and then the gloves. Nikolai did the same. “We’ll see you two back up at the house. We’ll go ahead and make sure there’s no evidence of his visit in the kitchen. When you two return, you can take care of the rest. Understood?”


“Yes, sir,” Alexei and Dmitry said in unison. After Viktor and Nikolai departed, the two lower ranking individuals exchanged a disgusted, knowing look. Although they’d appreciated the help in getting JD out of the changing room and onto the diving board, they weren’t all that surprised that the rest would be up to them.


Although it was difficult to maneuver on the diving board, Alexei and Dmitry eventually managed to attach the cinder block to JD’s ankles. Then, with the cinder block balanced on the man’s chest, they picked up his feet, and on the count of three caused JD and the cinder block to do a backflip off the end. The idea was to get JD into the deepest water possible.


After a significant double splash, the water quickly returned to its relative placidity. The only thing marring its surface was the intermittent soft summer breezes wafting across the lake from the west.


“What do you think?” Alexei called out. He’d retreated to the base of the diving board while Dmitry had stayed out at the very end, peering down into the remarkably deep water.


“Every so often I think I see something but then don’t,” Dmitry 
said. “I believe we’re good.” He nodded a few times as if agreeing with himself before retreating off the diving board to join Alexei at the base of the dock.


“Let’s talk for a minute about the cleanup,” Dmitry said as he and Alexei removed their aprons and latex gloves. “Since the only people who have shown up out here, other than the chief of police when we first arrived, have been Ethan Jameson and recently JD, I don’t think getting rid of JD’s clothes is a top priority like his car. That broken down blue Lexus is like a goddamn neon sign announcing that he’d been here. It’s got to go straightaway.”


“I agree with you,” Alexei said. He put the inside-out aprons and surgical gloves on the dock, planning on dealing with them later. “Where do you propose we put it?”


“I think we should just drive it into town. We can park it just about anyplace. It doesn’t really matter. I don’t think we should take it out on one of the old logging roads. Some hiker might see us and wonder what the hell we are doing. Nor do I think we should risk parking it at his apartment because one of the mechanics from the auto shop he lives above might recognize us. No one is going to notice us parking it in town on a lazy summer afternoon.”


“Good point!” Alexei said. “Okay, I’ll find his keys and meet you in the kitchen. Let’s get the car problem out of the way.”


While Dmitry got keys for the Dodge Ram, Alexei descended the few cellar steps and went into the changing room. It gave him a weak feeling just returning to the scene, and he shuddered yet again at JD’s violent death. At the same time, he experienced a sudden surge of anger directed at Viktor for changing his mind Sunday night and not leaving Essex Falls. Had they done so, all of this angst could have been avoided as they would have already arrived back home in Koltsovo.


Alexei took in a deep breath, held it for a moment, and then let it out. He shook his head in frustration. The whole ridiculous situation seemed so unnecessary and unbelievably unfair, especially since he was the one saddled with the most amount of effort and work by far. At Viktor’s insistence he’d again been out in the barn bright and early that very morning rechecking the theta prion concentration in the fermenter even though it had been less than twenty-four hours since he’d done it previously. Interestingly enough and to his surprise, it seemed to have risen, which was unexpectedly reassuring.


As these thoughts reverberated around inside his head, Alexei froze for a minute as a sudden but alluring idea occurred to him that he’d not thought of previously. What if he fudged a theta determination and announced to Viktor it was suddenly adequate? He could then go through a sham purification process and claim there had been a significant harvest. After all, his work was never checked by Viktor or by any of the others. At that point they could then go ahead and do a release by dumping it into the town water department’s final holding tank and get the hell out of Essex Falls.


What made this idea suddenly so tempting was that Alexei felt he was the only one who seemed to be progressively fearful that their world was threatening to collapse around them. First it had been Ethan’s menacing threats to involve the Essex Falls police by calling attention to their forged passports, then JD essentially doing the same. And as disturbing as those two episodes had been with those two simpletons, it was nothing compared to what Alexei feared could possibly happen with Jack Stapleton. Here was a true threat, an obviously intelligent and highly trained individual that Viktor seemed to completely disregard at their peril.


As if awakening from a mini-trance, Alexei took in a deep 
breath. He immediately recognized he’d stumbled onto a potentially lifesaving solution to a growing problem. Under normal circumstances his first thought would be to raise the issue with Dmitry so they could debate the pros and cons. Yet in this particular circumstance he didn’t know for certain what Dmitry’s response might be. There was always the worry that Dmitry would interpret such thoughts as traitorous. Militiamen were trained to follow orders, not to think on their own.


Yet from Alexei’s perspective the overwhelming issue was time. If they waited until Jack Stapleton showed up on their doorstep, like they essentially had done with Ethan and JD, it would be too late. Even if they chose to flee, it was a three- to four-hour drive up to the border, and there wasn’t any possibility of an alternative route, meaning there was a lot of opportunity for them to be apprehended.


Undecided how much of his thoughts to share with Dmitry, Alexei went into the locker JD had chosen and made a quick search through his trouser pockets. As he expected, he quickly found JD’s car keys. He then balled up JD’s clothes along with his wallet and shoes and hid them temporarily in a small cabinet meant for pool equipment. Although he had zero expectation of anyone coming to the house looking for JD while he and Dmitry were getting rid of the car, he wanted to be sure. His plan was to ultimately deal with JD’s personal effects when he and Dmitry returned.


That taken care of, at least temporarily, Alexei headed back upstairs and found everyone in the kitchen where Dmitry was having a quick bite and the others creating a grocery list for their evening meal. Alexei dangled JD’s keys in front of Dmitry’s face. “I’ll go ahead and drive the Lexus into town. How about you pick me up where you usually do in front of the school in fifteen to twenty minutes?”


“Will do,” Dmitry said as he wiped his face and slid off the barstool.


Outside Alexei had a little trouble opening JD’s aged driver-side door as there was an old partially rusted crease that ran down the car’s side from the front fender almost to the taillight. He found that to get it to open, he had to lift up as well as pull out. Once inside he had no trouble starting the vehicle, and proceeded to head into town.


As he drove, Alexei was oblivious to the surroundings, playing over and over in his mind the seductive idea of faking a theta prion harvest. The more he thought about it, the better it sounded. He also made a snap decision to definitely raise the idea with Dmitry, despite his initial reluctance. The more he considered it, the more convinced he became that the possibility of being apprehended by the American authorities was just too big a risk, and in his mind the chances it might happen were increasing with every passing hour. What particularly sparked this mounting concern was recalling exactly what Jack Stapleton had said was on his mind, namely the issue of Ethan Jameson’s missing body and his questioning the commander’s supposed beer-making interests. And perhaps even more worrisome, his personal interest in the Bennet Estate’s diving board.


Alexei winced, trying to think of what he might say if Jack Stapleton sought him out to specifically ask if he could come over to the Bennet Estate and use the diving board. Or worse yet, what if Jack decided to just appear on his own, since using a diving board on a shared lake wasn’t all that out of the question. Alexei literally shuddered to think of a forensic pathologist out there diving in the company of Ethan Jameson’s body and now JD’s.


“Get ahold of yourself!” Alexei suddenly yelled out loud. For the 
moment he knew he had to stop thinking about Jack Stapleton as he was driving himself to distraction. Instead, he had to go back to concentrating on the mundane task of disposing of the car.


Shunning Main Street for the slight fear someone in the town might recognize the vehicle being driven by someone other than JD, Alexei used back streets and drove to the Bennet Park parking lot. It had occurred to him en route that the park would be a good place to leave the car because JD frequently parked there for basketball, and it was also conveniently screened with vegetation from the park itself, so it was possible he wouldn’t be observed by any of the current park patrons. Before he pulled in, Alexei checked it out. Although a half dozen cars were there at that time in the afternoon, conveniently enough there were no people milling around.


Alexei pulled in and quickly parked. After one last rapid check that the coast was clear, he exited the car, leaving the keys in the ignition. He then rapidly walked out of the parking lot itself. Without slowing he skirted the elementary school and emerged onto Main Street. There he was pleased to find Dmitry already waiting for him. Without a moment’s hesitation, he climbed up into the truck’s cab.


“Have you been here long?” Alexei questioned as he did his seat belt to keep the blasted alarm from going off.


“Two minutes,” Dmitry said as he backed up and then accelerated along Main Street.


Alexei explained where he’d put JD’s car and why, then, with that out of the way, he told Dmitry that he had something particularly important to discuss with him.


Dmitry looked over at Alexei with a confused expression. “Okay. What’s on your mind?”


“Our freedom,” Alexei said cryptically. He’d decided he’d broach 
the subject, not with the potentially traitorous idea of falsifying the theta prion concentration but by convincing Dmitry about the seriousness of the threat that Jack Stapleton posed and which Viktor was ignoring. His idea was that once he’d succeeded in making Dmitry as concerned about Jack as he was, only then would he provide the solution. What he intended to emphasize once again was that they had already accomplished what they had come to Essex Falls to do, namely to establish the proof of concept that theta prion was without doubt the ultimate bioweapon for the East’s conflict with the West. He also planned to make it a point to explain that what they were currently doing with this unnecessary final harvest was putting their lives at risk merely to play to Viktor’s vanity.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 24


Friday, July 25, 3:05 
p.m
.


Hamilton County, New York


“Thank you,” Jack said simply as he accepted a cold bottle of water from Mark Anderson, the owner of the American Pest Control Company. He was sitting in the man’s utilitarian office. Jack had just ridden his Trek the six miles from Essex Falls out from Livermore Road to the company’s location to interview the owner. He was hoping to learn anything at all about Ethan Jameson that might be helpful since Bill Hargrove was making no progress finding the missing body.


Jack had spent most of the day vainly trying to find some kind of common “food-borne thread” in Bob’s ever expanding dementia series, with Bob having seen yet another patient that very morning that probably needed to be added. This patient was a thirty-nine-year-old woman named Christine Stephens who’d developed an initially subtle but progressive gait problem three days previously. Since Jack was at the office making phone calls to the involved families, Bob had invited him in to see Christine Stephens. Jack 
had been shocked at both the patient’s age and the speed with which her apparent dementia had developed. Prior to her sudden ataxia and confusion, she’d reportedly been completely well.


By two thirty in the afternoon, Jack had either visited or spoken with all fifteen involved households. Generally, most families tried to be helpful, but it was invariably stressful and difficult for everyone, especially since it was common knowledge that three of the patients had already died and several others were not that far behind. Despite the difficulties, it eventually had become completely clear to him that there was no common food source as he’d expected, adding another layer to the already compelling mystery.


“So, what can I do for you, Doctor?” Mark Anderson questioned. He was a sizable man in his mid-fifties with an unruly shock of salt-and-pepper hair and a weathered face. Not surprisingly he’d already admitted that hunting and fishing were his avowed passions. For his part, Jack had just finished explaining he was a medical examiner from New York City visiting Dr. Bob Nielson in hopes of helping him determine the exact cause of Ethan Jameson’s death.


“I’m assuming you have heard that Ethan Jameson’s body had mysteriously disappeared,” Jack added.


“Absolutely,” Mark said. “Chief Hargrove called me yesterday. Obviously I was shocked. I’d never heard of such a thing as a body disappearing from a morgue.”


“It happens,” Jack said. “But usually only in facilities where there is a large turnover and certainly not in a small town like Essex Falls. Do you have any idea of who might be involved or why?”


“Not a clue,” Mark said with a shake of his head.


“How long had Mr. Jameson worked here?”


“Quite a few years,” Mark said. “He came looking for work even before he was finished with high school, and he’s been here ever 
since. He’s been a reliable worker, although a bit hot under the collar and opinionated, particularly of late.”


“How many pesticide technicians do you have?”


“Ethan was one of five. Now I’m down to four.”


“Did Ethan get along with the others?”


“Reasonably so, I’d say. He’d actually trained several of them, as he’d been here the longest. The person he bumped heads with the most is Art Sorenson, my technician supervisor. I didn’t interact with Ethan all that much. That was Art’s job.”


“Any chance I might have a word with this Art Sorenson?” Jack said. “We’re getting a bit desperate for leads. I’m assuming Art dealt with Ethan on a regular basis.”


“Many times each and every day. As I said, it was Art’s job.” Mark leaned across his desk and pressed an intercom button. Almost immediately an old-fashioned speaker crackled to life with a woman’s voice. Mark asked for Art to come in and immediately got a positive reply.


While they waited, Jack asked Mark if he had any idea of what pesticide agent Ethan Jameson might have contaminated himself with or how it might have happened. “I’m assuming you people are very careful with these products knowing their toxicity,” Jack said. As he spoke he extended the water bottle out from his body as he struggled to unscrew the cap. It was difficult because the plastic bottle was so soft and pliable.


“We are extraordinarily careful,” Mark claimed. “We have very strict fail-safe rules to ensure our technicians clean themselves appropriately at the end of the day and to keep them from taking any of our products home with them by accident or otherwise.”


As Mark continued talking, Jack finally managed to get the water bottle open, and once he did, the bottle bounced back to its 
original shape, losing a tiny splash of the water in the process. He then shook the bit of free water off his hand and apologized to Mark for what had spilled out onto the floor.


“No worries!” Mark said with a wave of dismissal. “Those damn bottles can be a bear to open sometimes.” He then went back to describing the company’s safety rules for the technicians, but for a few moments Jack was not listening. His mind had strayed elsewhere after his struggle with the recalcitrant bottle top. What had suddenly popped into his mind was the issue of water and thirst. He had suddenly remembered a comment he himself had made the day before during lunch at Ted’s Diner when he’d brought up what might be the most famous epidemiological case in the history of medicine. It was when a particularly clever physician named John Snow stopped a cholera epidemic in London by removing the handle from the Broad Street water pump, which serviced a contaminated well.


“What about water?” Jack questioned, thinking out loud. It had suddenly occurred to him that perhaps, just like that 1854 case, this current Essex Falls dementia series was waterborne. For some unknown reason he’d not thought about the possibility. In his mind’s eye he could see the Bennet Municipal Water Department building at the head of the Bennet Reservoir that he’d passed that very morning on his bike ride.


“Excuse me?” Mark said, interrupting himself mid-sentence to look askance at Jack. Jack’s sudden question was a total non sequitur.


Jack started to apologize when he embarrassingly recognized what he had done thanks to his musings and sudden realization, but he was saved by the door thudding open. In swept Art Sorenson with a particularly assertive and dynamic personality. He was relatively young, probably in his mid-forties, tall, tanned, and slender. 
In addition to his outgoing bearing, he was unique in regard to his apparent fastidiousness about his person and clothing. Even though he was working in a pest control company out in the boondocks, he was wearing a fresh dress shirt with a tasteful tie and his hair was carefully groomed.


Mark immediately introduced Art to Jack and vice versa and explained that Jack was there in an attempt to learn what he could about Ethan Jameson.


“Anything you might be able to tell me could be helpful, anything and everything,” Jack added. “I particularly wanted to chat with you because Mark said you were the one who interacted the most with Ethan Jameson here at the American Pest Control.”


“Every day!” Art said. “He was opinionated, occasionally argumentative and volatile, but most definitely responsible. We might have had our disagreements, but we respected each other. Workwise, he was meticulous and consistent, which is how you have to be in this business. I have to give him credit. He never cut corners, as far as I knew.”


“Do you have any idea of how he might have slipped up on this occasion to contaminate himself?” Jack asked.


“I don’t,” Art said. “After he died, Chief Hargrove had us go over the interior of his truck carefully. We found nothing amiss there nor in the house where he was living.”


“How about his relationship with his fellow technicians?” Jack asked. “Any particular vendettas there or any ill feelings that you knew of?”


“None apparent,” Art said. “My sense is that they didn’t interact during their off-hours as Ethan’s interests revolved almost exclusively around his beloved Diehard Patriots. The other four are more into hunting and fishing.”


“Okay!” Jack said, patting his knees and standing up. Having suddenly hit upon the idea of a possible waterborne explanation for the dementia series, which he berated himself for not thinking of earlier, he wanted to give it a bit of thought and follow-up. He had no clue whether prion disease could be waterborne or not, but he couldn’t think of any reason why it couldn’t be, especially given the remarkable stability of prions. “If either of you has any sudden ideas about Ethan Jameson’s illness or his disappearance that you think might possibly be significant, please let Chief Hargrove or Dr. Nielson know.”


After both men agreed to be in touch if anything came to mind that might possibly be significant, Jack took his leave. Within seconds, he was on his bike heading back toward Essex Falls. The weather was as gorgeous as ever as were the vistas. After about a mile, he began climbing one of the small mountains that ringed the town. He had the road to himself as there was almost no vehicular traffic except for a rare truck.


Twenty blissful minutes later and after an exciting downhill ride, Jack entered the far western end of Main Street and allowed his speed to drop considerably. Sitting back on his seat, Jack even allowed himself to travel for several blocks no-handed. He was feeling rather good about his idea of a possible waterborne explanation, although it would mean everybody in town was at some degree of risk, including him and Laurie. Yet with not one case outside of the downtown area, he wasn’t overly concerned although he thought it prudent until proven otherwise to encourage everyone when in town to drink bottled water, which he planned to suggest to Bob. What was particularly tickling his intellectual fancy was that if this possible-prion dementia problem was being spread by drinking water, how similar the situation would be to the case solved by John 
Snow nearly two hundred years ago. The difference, of course, if it turned out that it was waterborne, was that the source would most likely involve contamination by an animal rather than human waste like in nineteenth-century London.


At the far end of Main Street, he coasted and then banked. After passing the hulking and empty Bennet factory, he rode into the small parking lot in front of the Bennet Municipal Water Department building. Similar to the mill, the structure had some interesting architectural flourishes, including a series of Lancet arches along its lengthy front façade.


After a short moment of indecision of what to do with his bike, Jack maneuvered it inside one of the double entrance doors and leaned it up against an interior wall. In contrast to the moderately decorative exterior, the interior was devoid of any decoration whatsoever and in need of a coat of paint. As a consequence, he doubted if anyone was going to complain about the Trek. Besides, there was no one in sight.


About ten feet away was a closed, opaque-glass door with the word 
Office
 painted in old-fashioned lettering. Although Jack was eager to go into the office and find a knowledgeable person to question, he couldn’t help but see down the wide hallway to where it opened up about fifty feet away. Plainly visible was an enormous, open water storage tank.


With no one in evidence to suggest he wasn’t welcome, Jack wandered down to the end of hallway and just stood for a moment, gazing out at the impressive, acre-sized interior filled with a number of expansive water tanks. There were five of them in a row, serving as a study in perspective. He could now understand why the building occupied such a large footprint. Continuous, deep-throated water pumps could be heard but not seen, and the air was 
understandably humid. In the middle distance, at the third tank several men in coveralls were working. Whether they saw Jack or not, he didn’t know, but if they had, they ignored him.


Jack walked directly up to the nearest tank and looked in. He guessed it was about ten feet deep. The water was crystal clear and constantly on the move. There was a slight chlorine odor. At somewhere around a hundred-feet square, he wondered just how many gallons the tank might contain. He had no way of guessing, but imagined it had to be a lot.


After standing there for a minute or two, Jack turned around and returned to the office and tried the door. As expected, it was unlocked, and he entered. Inside, the combination of the furniture and the décor appeared like the set for a movie taking place a hundred years ago. Front and center was a worse-for-wear secretary’s desk. At the desk was a middle-aged, full-figured woman with her hair piled on top of her head. She was wearing old-fashioned, oversized eyeglasses and a nondescript dress. Her name was Pat Skinner, as indicated in block letters set into a small wooden, triangular stand on her desk. Although her furniture appeared ancient, she was typing into a modern computer monitor. She smiled pleasantly as Jack approached and removed a single earphone. “Can I help you?” she asked cheerfully. Jack had the feeling they didn’t get too many visitors.


“I have some questions about the water department,” Jack said pleasantly. “Might there be someone who could give me some basic information?”


“Hmmm,” she mused. “Perhaps, Lachlan Harper, our municipal utilities director, would be willing to talk with you. Let me see if he’s available.” She replaced her earphone then pressed a button on an old-fashioned phone.


While he waited, Jack’s eyes roamed around the room. There were four individual offices each with a glazed door emblazoned with the occupants’ role in the same antique lettering as the office door. There was a 
Director,
 a 
Finances,
 and two 
Water Operators
. As he thought about how little he knew about the civil engineering of municipal water, he marveled that whenever he turned the water on wherever he happened to be, he’d never thought very much about where it came from and what went into making it safe to drink.


“Excuse me!” Pat called out to get Jack’s attention. “Mr. Harper wants to know if you are a resident of Essex Falls.”


“I am not,” Jack said. “Tell him I’m a medical examiner from New York City, and I am here at Dr. Robert Neilson’s request to lend a hand at investigating a possible outbreak that could be waterborne.”


“Oh, my goodness,” Pat exclaimed before going back to her telephone call. A moment later she removed her earphone and pointed for Jack’s benefit at the closed office door across from her desk. “Director Harper will see you now.”


Jack thanked the woman before striding over to the indicated door. It was unlocked, and he walked directly in. The inside office appeared the same as the outside just with a few personal touches like photographs and knickknacks, but all the furniture was from the same era. As for Lachlan Harper, he was a burly, full-bearded, late-middle aged, muscular Scotsman with pale skin that was mildly erythematous, particularly along the sides of his rather bulbous nose and across his cheeks. His eyes were a shocking blue and his hair had a definite reddish tint.


“What kind of outbreak are you investigating?” Lachlan asked with no preamble, obviously concerned. He grabbed a couple of 
chairs from the side of the room and positioned them near the center in front of his desk. He motioned for Jack to sit and once Jack did, he took the other.


“I don’t mean to alarm you,” Jack said right off. “What I believe Essex Falls might be experiencing is not the usual E. coli or salmonella problem or something similar but rather something much different.” At that point Jack formally introduced himself and Lachlan did the same. Jack learned the man had been trained as a hydraulic engineer, a type of civil engineer that specialized in dealing with water, and had worked at the Bennet Municipal Water Department for the last fifteen years.


Jack then described the fourteen and possibly fifteen cases of neurological disease that Dr. Nielson had so far seen, which certainly captured Lachlan’s interest, especially when Jack described the problem as some kind of “transmissible spongiform encephalopathy.” Jack then asked if Lachlan had ever heard anything about infectious prions, but he hadn’t, although on further questioning he remembered having heard something about mad cow disease, which Jack explained was bovine spongiform encephalopathy. Nor had Lachlan heard of any plans or even trade gossip about future testing of municipal water for infectious prions or whether there was such a test available.


“Let me be clear,” Jack said. “I’m certainly not suggesting that these patients of Dr. Nielson got their dementia from municipal water. It’s just an idea that occurred to me as a possibility after I spent a lot of effort ruling out solid food sources like infected beef or deer meat. To be honest, what made me even consider the idea of a waterborne source was that all the patients live in downtown Essex Falls. Tell me this: Does the Bennet Municipal Water Department only provide water here in town?”


“That’s correct,” Lachlan said. “In the outlying areas people draw their water from wells or directly from one of the many lakes, which is a bit of a risk, especially if they’re also not being responsible about their septic systems.”


“Maybe you could give me a short version of what you people do here in the water department,” Jack suggested. “I did notice those five ginormous, open water tanks down the hall.”


“Certainly,” Lachlan said. “Those five open vats represent the stages our water goes through to make sure of its potability. We pump it in from the reservoir continuously, then subject it first to Coagulation, then Flocculation, followed by Sedimentation, Filtration, and finally Chlorination. At that point it’s pumped up to a holding cistern built into the mountain to our immediate north. It’s the cistern’s elevation that provides the water pressure here in town. That’s it in a nutshell.”


“Do you have much of a problem with vermin in this building?” Jack questioned. “That might sound like a weird question coming out of the blue. What I’m trying to do is get an idea of the possible potential sources of infectious prions if it turns out that Dr. Nielson’s outbreak is waterborne.”


“Vermin is not one of our main problems,” Lachlan said with a shake of his head. “We have some pests, mostly the six-legged variety, but I’d call it minimal.”


“Okay, that’s good to know,” Jack said. “Moving on, I did notice that there are no restrictions around the tanks. Could anyone off the street walk in here and access the water supply? Don’t get me wrong! I’m not making any accusations. I’m merely brainstorming.”


“I suppose that’s true,” Lachlan said. “I’ve never given it much thought since we don’t get many visitors. The last time was about a year ago when Janet Huber brought in her third-grade class.”


“How about at night?” Jack asked after smiling at yet another reference to Janet Huber.


“We’re locked up tight at night,” Lachlan said. “There’s no doubt about that.”


A few minutes later after thanking the man for his time and accepting his business card, Jack took his leave. It was almost five o’clock, and he realized as absorbed as he been all day with both the dementia series and Ethan Jameson’s missing corpse, he’d totally forgotten whether there’d be a basketball game that afternoon.


Jack was at the Bennet Clinic in less than a minute. After dutifully dragging his bike inside and leaving it in the empty suite, he headed into Bob’s waiting room. He was immediately relieved to see a number of patients, which suggested he wasn’t missing basketball after all.


“Where’s Bob?” Jack asked Melanie. “Is he in with a patient?”


“He’s not,” Melanie said. “He’s in his office at the moment. He’d just taken a call from the neurologist at Clinton Hospital who’d seen Christine Stephens today, but it looks like he’s off at the moment if you want to catch him before he sees his next patient.”


“I do!” Jack said. “Thanks!” He rounded Melanie’s desk and entered the clinical area. Passing the procedure room, where there was a young boy and presumably his mother waiting, he walked directly into Bob’s office as his door was ajar. Bob was at his monitor typing, but the moment he saw Jack, he paused, and they exchanged a warm greeting.


“I don’t mean to bother you,” Jack said. “I was suddenly worried I might be missing basketball. Five o’clock snuck up on me.”


“No worries! We never play on Friday evenings, particularly during the summer months. It’s considered family time.”


“That works out,” Jack said. “I didn’t bring my gear with me and 
Laurie has the car, so it would have been mildly problematic. Speaking of Laurie and Carol, any idea when they might be back?”


“They didn’t get off on their hike until rather late, and since they were going to do the entire Cascade trail, I don’t expect to see them until seven at the earliest. What about Warren and Jada on their Lake Placid trip? Any news from them?”


“Not a peep,” Jack said with a shrug.


“Not surprising! There’s a lot to see in that area, so they might not be back until late tonight. My suggestion, if you and Laurie are up for it, is for the four of us to have a relatively late dinner at Ted’s, say around eight. He does a good old-fashioned pot roast on Friday nights.”


“Sounds like a plan.”


“How did you do out at the American Pest Control Company?” Bob asked as he went back to typing.


“I didn’t learn anything earthshattering,” Jack said. “But I didn’t expect to. How about you? Did you hear anything encouraging from Bill about Ethan’s missing corpse? Any progress?”


“Nada, unfortunately,” Bob said. “I’m starting to worry we aren’t going to find it.”


“Although I didn’t learn much at the American Pest Control Company, I did have an interesting idea. Since I had determined this morning thanks to Melanie’s help that all the dementia cases have been here in downtown Essex Falls and none in the suburbs, and since there doesn’t seem to be a viable food source, the idea occurred to me that maybe, just maybe, the outbreak could be waterborne.”


“Hmmm. That’s an interesting thought,” Bob said, wrinkling his brow and nodding as he thought it over. “That hadn’t occurred to me.”


“Me neither,” Jack admitted. “But the idea encouraged me to 
stop in at the Bennet Municipal Water Department and chat with the director.”


“Good idea,” Bob said. “Was he helpful? I’ve always thought of Lachlan Harper as a good man.”


“Quite helpful,” Jack said with a nod. “I hadn’t really thought out any specific questions to ask as the visit was more of a fishing trip than anything else. To be honest, I knew so little about the process of municipal water treatment that I didn’t know where to begin. Although I didn’t come to any conclusions about the possibility of this current dementia series being waterborne, what I did gather is that the concept of infectious prions isn’t yet a concern in the water treatment field. That’s a mistake. My sense is that they are going to need to catch up because chlorination will have zero effect on any prion contamination. The other thing I came away with was that anybody and everybody can walk in there and have access to a huge tank of potable water.”


“That’s probably not a good idea in this day and age,” Bob said.


“My thoughts exactly,” Jack said.


“Oh shit!” Bob said as he glanced at his watch. “What am I doing jawboning with you? I’ve got at least another hour of patients to see.” He stood up and slipped his white doctor’s coat back on that had been draped over the back of his desk chair.


“My apologies for distracting you,” Jack said. He stood up as well and followed Bob as he hurried out of the office.


“See you later at Ted’s,” Bob said over his shoulder before ducking into the procedure room. Jack could hear him greet the waiting mother and young boy and apologize for keeping them waiting. To Jack, Bob seemed to be the epitome of the small town, totally committed family physician, which was unfortunately becoming a lost art.


Jack passed through Bob’s waiting room, waving to Melanie, and retrieved his bike. Outside he straddled the Trek but then hesitated, unsure of what he wanted to do. There was to be no basketball, Laurie was engaged on her hike probably for a number of more hours, and Warren and Jada were off on their excursion. For the moment, Jack felt mildly cast adrift as he couldn’t think of any more sleuthing to do. Although he knew he could always follow another one of the many bike loops Bob had suggested, he’d had enough biking.


Instead, Jack found himself fantasizing about the gorgeous crystal-clear lake the Hiram House overlooked and the canoe, both of which beckoned thanks to the perfect weather. He guesstimated the temperature was in the low eighties, and with a nearly cloudless sky, he was confident it would remain so for the next hour or two, making the idea of late afternoon water sports enticing. After all, he could bike ride any old day in the city. Besides, what if Alexei just happened to appear and begin using the Bennet diving board while Jack just happened to be paddling in the not-too-distant neighborhood. If that was the case he knew he wouldn’t think twice about paddling over and asking to join in.


With that entertaining thought in mind, Jack pushed off, quickly rode the length of Main Street, and then upped his speed to what he liked to fantasize was close to that of the Tour de France peloton. With the wind whipping by his face and even rustling his hair inside his helmet, he pushed himself to greater effort, progressively eager to get back to Hiram House, don his bathing suit, put the canoe in the water, and get out on the lake. As a strong swimmer and former lifeguard during his college years, he didn’t think for a second about any potential danger he might be courting. On the contrary, he wondered why he hadn’t thought of the idea earlier.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 25


Friday, July 25, 4:54 
p.m.


Hiram House


Hamilton County, New York


Riding with great energy all the way up to the back stairs of the Hiram House, Jack hefted his bike onto his shoulder and quickly carried it up onto the porch. He’d been leaving the Trek in the mudroom along with his biking gear since their arrival Wednesday. Without wasting any time, he charged upstairs to change into his bathing suit, which he’d been hanging to dry in the sizable shower. He was eager to get out in the canoe as quickly as possible. Pulling on a sweatshirt—more for sun protection than warmth despite the late afternoon hour—and grabbing a clean towel, he was ready.


When he was passing through the kitchen, he hesitated for a moment, wondering if he should leave a note for Laurie so if she came home earlier than expected, she’d know he was out on the lake. But then he decided against taking the time. He was confident 
she’d see his bathing suit was gone from the shower and the canoe was gone from the dock and quickly put two and two together.


Once out at the end of the dock, he stood for a moment, facing up at the sun with his eyes closed to appreciate its power and warmth. Then after taking off the sweatshirt and putting it and the towel on one of the Adirondack chairs along with his phone, he did exactly what he’d done that morning, first standing with his toes over the edge and gazing out over the expanse of the lake. Focusing on the distant view of the Bennet Estate, he could see that at the moment the diving board was not being used, but with the fabulous weather, he thought there was a good chance that could change. Then taking in a deep breath, he dove into the water, and with another burst of high energy like he’d expended that morning, he swam out fifty feet or so until he couldn’t hold his breath any longer.


Flipping over onto his back, he floated for a few minutes while gazing up into the infinite blue of the sky. Even that simple activity reminded him with great nostalgia of his teenage summers. But soon the canoe’s allure was too much to resist, and he returned to the dock. After drying off and redonning his sweatshirt, he set about launching the canoe. Once he had, he tossed in his towel and a paddle and then climbed in himself.


Jack was adept at canoeing since his family had one at their Indiana summer cottage. He’d even participated as a teenager in canoe competitions, in which he’d been reasonably successful. What he liked about a canoe was the ability to propel it almost soundlessly the way he was currently doing. And as he did so, he particularly appreciated that the lake was private and consequently full of wildlife. As for the weather, it couldn’t have been any better 
with just occasional slight breezes, a few puffy white clouds, and a deliciously warm temperature.


Without having given the idea much thought, he’d decided to circumnavigate the lake. Thanks to the water’s striking clarity he could see down fifteen to twenty feet easily, where there were lots of fish and fish nests. Since the water got deep as quickly as it did, he kept close to the shoreline, and as he glided by he disturbed and consequently heard lots of frogs croaking and splashing into the water. He was also close enough to the shoreline and the forest that surrounded the lake to hear and see a remarkable variety of colorful songbirds. As far as he was concerned, the scene and the conditions couldn’t have been any better, especially considering how accustomed he was to the cement canyons of New York City.


About twenty-five pleasurable minutes later, Jack found himself approaching the Bennet Estate dock. During the entire paddle he’d occasionally glanced over in its direction, particularly at the diving board, hoping to see activity, but there had been none. And now as he approached, he wondered what he should do. On his current trajectory, he’d need to paddle out into the lake to round the end of the dock.


Holding up on his paddling, Jack debated getting his mobile phone out and calling Bob to have him call JD to phone Alexei since JD presumably had Alexei’s number for basketball so that JD could tell Alexei that at that very moment Jack was in a canoe at the Bennet Estate and would love to chat if convenient. But almost the second this complicated scenario entered Jack’s mind, he laughed at himself because he had responsibly left his phone on the Adirondack chair on the Hiram dock. Besides, he dismissed the whole idea as far too involved and ultimately too presumptuous. It just wasn’t his style. If a meeting were merely to have happened, it was 
one thing, which was what Jack had been hoping, but making a big effort to cause it to happen was something else entirely.


Instead, Jack began paddling out into the lake to round the Bennet dock by a wide margin, but then on a whim, he changed his mind and instead guided the canoe’s bow over in its direction. This new course required him to duck briefly as the canoe glided under the protruding diving board and then to grab onto one of the dock’s cleats as he came alongside its lakeside end. For a few moments he just hung on, trying to decide what to do, if anything.


From where he was, Jack had an unobstructed view of the property, including the main house, and he could now appreciate just how remarkably similar it was to the Hiram House although definitely larger and in that sense more impressive. Off to the left closer to the lake was a good-sized barn, or in Jack’s mind, a stable for horses since it had lots of first floor windows, which barns didn’t have at least in Indiana, and there was a riding trail in front that disappeared off into the lakeside forest. To the right and a bit closer to the house was a third building, the function of which Jack had no clue, as it was literally built into the hillside. Most of it except for its façade was underground. Beyond these three structures was a parking area with a single black pickup truck along with what looked to Jack like a formal garden. There were no signs of its militiamen residents whatsoever. Except for the truck, the place didn’t even look occupied.


Recognizing that he was totally exposed, especially being in a bright red canoe, Jack stayed where he was. His hope was that Alexei would spot him and come out to say hello. As seconds turned into minutes and no one appeared, Jack began to believe that the Netherlanders must have been out despite the black truck’s presence suggesting otherwise.


After about five minutes, he felt reasonably confident he was alone at the property, and he turned his attention to the diving board. There it was, beckoning, less than ten feet away. After another brief and silent exchange, he came to the self-serving conclusion that since he and the Netherlanders were, after all, sharing the lake, it didn’t seem all that presumptuous to share what was just a way to get into the lake, or so he justified.


Balancing himself with his hands on the canoe’s gunwales, he got to his feet and stepped out onto the dock. He then pulled the canoe up out of the water as well, letting it rest on its keel but tilted slightly onto its side. There it would sit in full view, announcing his presence like a huge red calling-card. At least he wasn’t doing anything underhanded, or so he continued to rationalize. He peeled off his sweatshirt, tossed it into the boat, and happily mounted the diving board and prepared himself for his first dive. But then he hesitated as he looked back at the barn and found himself wondering anew about the so-called brewery. From the first moment he’d heard about it and even after discussing it with Alexei, he couldn’t help but feel feel there was something distinctly fishy about it. The idea of a militia commander coming thousands of miles from an attractive but entirely flat country barely above sea-level to a gorgeous mountainous Arcadia in midsummer and choosing to closet himself indoors making beer seemed dubious at best.


Making yet another sudden decision, Jack retreated off the diving board, walked the length of the dock, and stepped out onto the lawn. For him the proximity of the long line of stable windows offering a quick interior glimpse was far too tempting an opportunity to ignore. Jack was at the building in seconds, and as he guessed, the windows were right at a convenient shoulder height.


Choosing a window halfway down the side of the building and 
cupping his hands along the sides of his head, Jack leaned his face against the glass and waited for his eyes to adjust. As they did so a large stainless-steel cylinder emerged out of the shadows not that far away, which Jack assumed was a fermenter. But then the more his eyes adjusted to the interior gloom, more equipment began to materialize, much more.


Jack didn’t know exactly what was needed for home brewing but had an idea it was minimal and centered around a fermenter, some sort of brew pot, and a heat source, but what he was now seeing was hardly minimal. It was extensive, and the closest machine he was able to recognize. It was a thermal cycler or PCR machine, which he knew for certain wasn’t needed for home brewing. Next to it was a centrifuge, and next to that a fluorescence microscope. Once he had recognized these instruments, he guessed the other larger units were chromatography and electrophoresis systems. There was even a small biosafety cabinet.


Jack suddenly straightened up. All at once it hit him. Abruptly he knew what he was looking at, and he was absolutely certain it was not a home brewery setup. It was a biomolecular laboratory, specifically a recombinant laboratory for using microorganisms to synthesize proteins.


“Good Lord!” Jack said out loud, staggering several steps backward before regaining his balance. It was almost as if he’d been smacked in the face. The neurological disease that Bob was seeing wasn’t typical, meaning the pathological proteins building up in the patients’ brains weren’t the usual variety. This indicated that the particular prion causing the disease was different than the usual. Terrifyingly, perhaps this laboratory that he’d inadvertently discovered was secretly making a totally new infectious prion, and if that was the case, then these supposed Netherlander militiamen were 
certainly not who they pretended to be. It even made sense that Alexei was a microbiology technician, causing Jack to wonder what the real roles were of the other three, particularly the so-called commander.


Not at all thinking clearly about his vulnerability, Jack dashed to the end of the building to try the door. He had in mind making himself absolutely certain he’d stumbled onto a makeshift recombinant laboratory. He knew full well that once he spread the word, it was going to cause one hell of a seismic response. In the back of his mind, he was already frantic to get in touch with Detective Lieutenant Lou Soldano the second he got back to the Hiram House. On multiple occasions in the past the detective had talked about his particularly close relationship with one of the higher-ups of the New York City Joint Terrorism Task Force. In Jack’s mind, if these Netherlanders were cooking a novel prion and spreading it, maybe even via the municipal water system, it was clearly terrorism.


Unfortunately, Jack’s immediate plans were foiled by a large, old-fashioned padlock on the stable’s front door. After giving the lock a frustrated shake, he decided the view he’d had of the barn’s interior was confirmation enough, and more to the point, he’d better get the hell away from the Bennet Estate. Spinning around, he started off at a run down the manicured lawn back toward the dock. As he ran, another possibility dawned on him: What if Ethan Jameson had discovered the existence of the laboratory? If he had, it certainly could have led to his demise and even to the disappearance of his body. All at once it was clear to Jack that the missing body and the mysterious neurological disease had to be connected.


Reaching the dock, Jack lost no time picking up the landward end of the canoe and quickly walking the front off the end of the 
dock. Poised, he leaned forward with the intent of dropping the back of the canoe into the water, but then he froze as he caught sight of something startling. In the depths of the lake, to his right directly off the end of the diving board, maybe twenty feet down, was a school of large trout in a feeding frenzy, flashing in and out of view. Looking a little closer amid the shifting shafts of sunlight seen when sun shines into water depths, it appeared as if the fish were feeding on a ghoulish object. It was a half-eaten human face with portions of the skull and eye sockets visible. Less visible in the murky depths were portions of shoulder bones.


Jack blinked and looked again, fearing that his imagination was running amuck. But not only did he continue to see what he feared he’d seen, but not that far away, maybe four feet or so, was yet another, more intact human head with fish nibbling away. He had no idea what was keeping the bodies—if they were in fact bodies—submerged. But what he did believe was that one of these remains had to be the missing corpse of Ethan Jameson.


“Hold up!” a breathless male voice suddenly and loudly commanded.


Jack straightened and spun around. To his shock, he was facing Alexei and another man, both of whom were at that moment stepping up onto the dock. Their heaving chests and gasping breaths suggested they had just raced down from the house. Alarmingly, both were armed—Alexei had a Glock while his compatriot carried an AR-15—and their expressions were hardly welcoming. Behind them, about halfway up to the house, Jack could see two more men approaching at a fast clip.


“Alexei!” Jack said, trying to sound upbeat despite the guns. “I’ve been hoping to run into you the whole time I’ve been out canoeing on the lake. I was eager to ask if you and your roommates might 
allow me to take a few dives off your springboard. By chance I happened to catch most likely you using it early this morning when I took a dip, and I was so jealous.”


“Shut up!” Alexei managed between gasps. He was clearly winded as he motioned with the pistol toward the ground and added: “Let go of the boat!”


“It’s called a canoe,” Jack corrected. “I don’t know if you have canoes in Holland, but I assure you they are a pure pleasure on a lake like this. It’s kind of an American thing, part of our heritage particularly here in New England. You’re welcome to give it a try if you’d like.”


“Shut up!” the second man managed, equally out of breath. To emphasize his wishes, he raised the rifle and menacingly pointed it directly at Jack’s face.


“Okay, okay,” Jack said. “Take it easy!” Following orders, he let go of the boat. It dropped about a half foot and slid forward slightly but then stopped. There it hovered with the very aft portion of its keel resting on the outer lip of the dock.


“You seem to have taken me for a trespasser! I don’t think a gun is necessary,” Jack said. “Alexei and I know each other, don’t we, Alexei?”


“Shut up!” Alexei repeated. His breathing was beginning to return to normal.


“I missed our afternoon pickup game,” Jack said. “Didn’t you?” He had an urge to keep talking, as if talk alone might get him out of an obviously dicey situation. What was going through his mind was that if he was at all correct in his most recent suspicions, these men had to be biological-weapon manufacturers on top of whatever else they were, and if that was true, it was terrifying not only for himself but for the entire country.


At that moment the other two men arrived and stepped onto the dock. Both eyed Jack with obvious disdain.


“This was exactly what I have been worried about,” Alexei snapped angrily, using his Glock to point at Jack and talking as if Jack wasn’t there. “This fellow is trouble a hundred times worse than Ethan or JD. We should have left Monday like we planned or at least when we heard a forensic pathologist was here.”


“Quiet!” the commander ordered. Then looking at Alexei, he asked: “What does he know?”


Alexei laughed humorlessly. “I’ve no idea specifically, but it can’t be good, Viktor. We’re lucky I just happened to see him trying to get into the barn, which he thankfully wasn’t about to do thanks to the padlock. Following that, he was hell-bent on leaving, which suggests to me he knows something, and it can’t be good. What I’m imagining is that he got a look through one of the barn windows and understood what he was seeing.”


Viktor nodded and walked directly up to Jack, hostilely sticking his face up close. He was three or four inches shorter and probably as much as thirty pounds lighter. He and Jack stared at each other for maybe thirty seconds until Viktor broke it off, shook his head in frustrated irritation, and then stepped back.


“Does he have a mobile phone with him?” Viktor questioned angrily.


“We haven’t seen one,” Alexei said.


“Check the boat, Dmitry!” Viktor ordered. “We need to be a hundred percent certain he made no calls.”


Dmitry handed his rifle to Nikolai and then brushed past Jack to make sure there was no phone in the boat.


“I didn’t bring a phone,” Jack offered airily. “Canoeing and phones don’t mix.”


“No phone in the boat,” Dmitry called out almost immediately.


“Launch the boat!” Viktor commanded to Dmitry, still sounding angry. “We’ll let the westerly wind blow the damn thing out into the lake and ultimately back to the distant shore. That will have them looking for him over there when he’s found missing.”


As the others watched, Dmitry shoved the canoe off the dock and then gave it a forceful shove. As Viktor suggested, the late afternoon breeze immediately caught it and turned it perpendicular to its direction, then the steady breeze began to push it out into the lake. With its shallow draw, the unoccupied canoe moved surprisingly quickly.


For a split second Jack considered the launched boat a window of opportunity, thinking he’d risk diving off the dock and swimming underwater out to it. But then he glanced back at the AR-15 and changed his mind. If it had just been a handgun, he might have taken the risk. But with an AR-15 that could be put on automatic, it would have been suicide.


“What are we going to do with him?” Alexei questioned after a brief pause. “We can’t let him leave.”


“Obviously not! For the moment, just lock him in the icehouse!” Viktor ordered angrily. “Then both of you come right back up to the house. We need to have an emergency meeting to decide what to do in general, and we have to do it now! We can deal with this bastard later.”


“Yes, sir!” Alexei said, saluting with his right hand while holding the Glock in his left. He then gripped the pistol in both hands and aimed it directly at Jack as Viktor and Nikolai stepped off the dock and hurried up toward the house. “You heard the commander,” Alexei snapped motioning with the Glock. “Start walking! And I warn you. No sudden movements or I swear we’ll shoot!”


“Oh! That’s what it is: an icehouse,” Jack said, forcing himself to sound calm. “I was wondering what that curious building was. Very interesting! I never would have guessed, even though it makes sense being mostly underground.”


“Shut up and move!” Alexei ordered.


Jack was prodded to step off the dock onto the grass and then to begin moving in the direction of the icehouse. Alexei and Dmitry with their guns at the ready followed immediately behind.


As Jack walked, he was feeling progressively frantic. Although he was thankful he’d not been shot on the spot, the idea of being locked in a half underground icehouse in a bathing suit didn’t sound a whole lot better.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 26


Friday, July 25, 5:48 
p.m.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


The tension was unmistakable as the four Russian scientists-and-technicians-cum-militiamen stared at one another across the kitchen island’s expanse of granite. They had just settled into their seats. Some very early dinner preparations were in evidence on the opposite end of the island near the eight-burner cooktop. Prior to Alexei having sounded the alarm, Viktor and Nikolai had started their evening cooking efforts. Just a few minutes earlier Alexei had been locked in a Ping-Pong marathon with Dmitry before coming up to the kitchen for a cold beer. It was then that he happened to catch sight of Jack at the barn door.


“I’m afraid this is not an auspicious development,” Viktor growled, hands gripping the edge of the countertop hard enough to make his knuckles white. His expression was serious and determined.


“ ‘Not an auspicious development’?” Alexei sputtered. “That’s the 
freaking understatement of the year. I’ve been afraid of this Jack Stapleton from the moment JD mentioned him on the phone days ago. I’ve been warning you over and over, but you wouldn’t listen.”


“Let’s not be insubordinate, Corporal Ivanov!” Viktor commanded angrily, emphasizing the word 
corporal
. “He’s not going to be our nemesis; he’s our prisoner. But I admit having him surprise us here like this is not a favorable circumstance. I’ll give you that.”


Alexei threw his hands in the air. “ ‘Not a favorable circumstance’?” he mimicked even more flippantly. “That’s worse than saying it’s ‘not an auspicious development.’ We shouldn’t even be here. We should have left on Monday and already be back in Russia.”


“Corporal Ivanov, that’s enough!” Viktor shouted with his face empurpling.


Irritably Alexei glanced over at Dmitry for a show of support, but Dmitry visibly settled deeper into his barstool and looked away. It was obvious that the last thing he wanted to do was get caught in a power struggle between Viktor and Alexei.


Alexei then looked over at Nikolai, but Nikolai looked away as well. Alexei was clearly on his own. He lowered his hands and let his shoulders sag. With no support, he was clearly outgunned.


“Okay, here’s what we’re going to do,” Viktor said, leaning forward, regaining his composure, and reasserting his command. “Alexei, you are going to go out to the barn right this minute and do another protein level on the current batch in the fermenter. I want to see if the theta prion concentration warrants a harvest, and if not, I want you to determine as best you can how long it will take. Once we have that information, we’ll cement our departure plans. Nikolai and Dmitry! I want you two to go ahead and immediately pack the truck. That will give us the opportunity to leave at a moment’s notice, in the unlikely circumstance it becomes necessary. 
And while you two are at it, I’d like you to make absolutely certain we have all our American and Canadian currency available and handy. In fact, put it all in the glove compartment along with our passports! While you three are busy with those chores, I will be sending a number of coded texts to let the GRU and the FSB know we’ll be on our way within days, certainly within a week and maybe sooner. Any questions or comments?” Viktor stared challengingly at each of his subordinates in turn, supposedly to give everyone an opportunity to respond. No one moved. “Okay, get to it!” he said, loudly slapping the countertop. “Now!”


“I have a question,” Alexei said, suddenly finding his voice despite feeling intimidated. “What are we going to do about the pathologist?”


“You and Dmitry locked him in the icehouse, right?” Viktor demanded.


“Yes, of course,” Alexei said. “That’s what you ordered us to do.”


“That’s fine for now,” Viktor snapped. “At the moment we have much more important things to worry about. With no clothes and no shoes and locked away, he’s out of the picture. Let’s concentrate on getting done immediately what I’ve outlined, then we can worry about having him join Ethan and JD.”


“What if he told someone he was coming here to Bennet Estate and they show up asking about him in the next hour or two?” Alexei questioned. “What are we going to say? What would we do?”


“That’s simple,” Viktor responded. “We just say we haven’t seen him. You heard him. He said he was out canoeing. And by now the canoe will be a good distance away and soon to be in the middle of the lake. At some point it will probably get pushed up against the opposite shore. When people start searching for him, they’d be looking in the surrounding forest and that portion of the lake and 
when they start, we’ll see them and be warned. Right now we’ve got much more pressing things to worry about than the damn meddling pathologist. Let’s get to it!”


After a short hesitation, everyone followed his lead. While he rushed off to the library, Nikolai and Dmitry quickly headed into the neighboring storeroom where everything they’d need on their travel to Montreal, including packaged food rations, had been amassed during the previous weeks. The general escape plan was to drive to a remote forested location in New York State close to the border, preferably on an old, rarely used logging road, a number of which they’d already located, abandon the truck, and walk across into Canada, which was essentially how they’d gotten into the United States some six weeks earlier. Once in Canada, they would hike to the nearest town, rent a car, and drive to Montreal where they would take the first flight either to Amsterdam or preferably Istanbul. As for personal items, each had a backpack in his bedroom, and that was to be it as far as baggage was concerned. All the biomedical equipment in their makeshift biomolecular recombinant laboratory was to be left behind.


Alexei suddenly found himself abandoned in the kitchen. Although the others seemed almost energized by Jack Stapleton’s unexpected appearance, he most definitely was not. Instead, it terrified him, sending his pulse and blood pressure soaring. Just thinking about the man and the threat he posed compelled him to reach into his pocket and pull out the Glock. The mere sight and heft of the weapon had enough of a calming effect to enable him to think.


Almost immediately Alexei decided to go ahead and do what he had been fantasizing about doing, and that was to hustle out to the barn, do a prion concentration check, and then report back to Viktor that the concentration was adequate for a harvest no matter 
what the actual result was. After all, no one ever checked his work, specifically no one had checked his results on any five of the previous theta prion purification episodes. Then he would go through a sham purification process so that he and Dmitry could dump the supposed harvest into the municipal water system like they had done with the other real harvests. Once they had done that, he was certain that Viktor would allow them to get the hell out of Essex Falls. It was Alexei’s growing concern that every day, even every hour, they didn’t leave, the chances that they were going to be apprehended by the American authorities and probably tortured increased dramatically.


The mere thought about how selfishly Viktor was putting them all at risk to satisfy his vanity by this final unnecessary harvest infuriated Alexei. It took strength of will to stop obsessing about it and suppress murderous thoughts, yet Alexei forced himself to do it. One thing was for certain: There was no way he shared the commander’s blithe disregard of the possibility and seriousness of someone, maybe even the police, coming to the Bennet Estate looking for Jack Stapleton. On the contrary, he thought it could happen at any moment, and thinking in this vein made him suddenly remember JD’s clothes, which he’d hidden in the game room.


Repocketing the Glock, Alexei immediately descended in a minor panic down to the game room. In his agitated state, he wasn’t capable of thinking clearly, and he knew it. He even returned briefly to the changing room, which in his mind had become a crime scene, so he could make absolutely certain that all remnants of JD’s visit had been removed.


A few minutes later, with JD’s clothes under his arm and the Glock in his pocket reassuringly thumping against his thigh, Alexei 
used the changing room door to the outside. His intent was to hurry down to the barn and start the process of determining the present concentration of theta prion in the fermenter. But halfway he stopped and looked over at the icehouse, which was closer to the house than the barn, and when he did so, Jack Stapleton and everything he represented, including all Alexei’s fears about being apprehended by the American authorities, came cascading back into his consciousness.


Reaching into his pocket in a renewed panic, Alexei again fondled the Glock. What was currently rocketing through his mind was whether he should take the time, despite Viktor’s specific orders, to walk over, pull open the aged padlock on the heavily insulated icehouse door, and shoot the meddling son of a bitch just to get at least that over with. It would be so easy, so definitive.


Alexei turned around and looked back at the main house. What was now going through his mind was his fear of Viktor, who was infamous for supposedly having summarily executed not one but two insubordinate militiamen in fits of rage. Whether the stories were true or not, Alexei had never been able to confirm, but he’d heard it from multiple sources and had no reason to doubt it.


“черт!” Alexei yelled the Russian oath three times, each time getting louder to give vent to his frustration. He was trapped in a lose-lose situation. Then, forcing himself to make a decision, he abandoned the idea of going into the icehouse to rid himself of what he considered his bête noir, at least for the time being. Instead, he recommenced heading to the barn. He even picked up his pace as he began to outline the exact sequence of the next hour or so. His plan was to do a legitimate test of current theta prion concentration in the fermenter and then just change the results when he wrote 
them in the log and then give the false results to Viktor. That way if Viktor were to show up while Alexei was working or soon after or wanted to see the log, there wouldn’t be any reason to suspect the results weren’t legitimate. In Alexei’s experience, there’d been plenty of times in the past when Viktor unexpectedly appeared.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 27


Friday, July 25, 6:15 
p.m.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


In nearly complete darkness Jack Stapleton had heard Alexei’s rising crescendo of what he guessed was swearing, and although he didn’t recognize the language, it snapped him out of his self-recriminating depression and the accompanying self-pitying paralysis. Jack was furious with himself as well as disbelieving that he could have been so damn stupid not to suspect there was something seriously amiss with these supposed Netherlander militiamen. In reality, it didn’t make any sense whatsoever for them to have come thousands of miles to instruct a small handful of youthful, disillusioned, far right, extremist militiamen and demanding in return only a place to stay and transportation. Equally stupid was to have accepted even for a second that they were spending time and effort brewing beer. Where all the equipment had come from to form a makeshift recombinant laboratory in the barn, he had no idea, but he was certain it was a lab. What added immeasurably to this 
certainty was having caught a grisly glimpse of the bodies “feeding the fish,” as the old Mafia bosses used to call dumping their enemies into the New York Bay. There was no doubt whatsoever in his mind that one of the bodies was the missing corpse of Ethan Jameson. Who the other body might be, he had no idea.


Jumping to his feet from where he’d been wallowing for the previous twenty minutes or so with the fear he was about to get unwelcome company, Jack quickly moved over by feel to the side of the locked door, positioning himself with his back pressed up against the wall on the side of door with the doorknob. The only very meager light in the icehouse came seeping in from around the rectangular edges of the outward opening door where it met its jamb. In both hands he was tightly clutching a shovel, which he’d found by feel right after being locked in. It was a weapon of sorts, although he was well aware it was hardly effective protection against a Glock and even less against an AR-15. But he felt obligated to himself to make some effort in the direction of self-protection despite his situation being desperate.


Holding his breath to hear better, Jack strained his ears for any sounds of approaching footsteps or voices. After more than a minute of hearing absolutely nothing, especially with the silence in the mostly underground icehouse being nearly absolute, he let out his breath and breathed deeply before holding it again. When he still didn’t hear anything, he began to relax in stages. After perhaps three or four minutes, he decided it had been a false alarm. Luckily he was being ignored, at least temporarily, and it was probably because his appearance caused some degree of panic. At that point Jack was quite sure he knew exactly what they were doing and possibly how they were doing it. What he didn’t know was why.


When Jack had been initially locked in, he’d spent a few panicky 
minutes by feel exploring the immediate area around the door. That was when he’d come across the few gardening tools, which included a rake as well as a shovel. He’d also felt a significant amount of straw on the dirt floor, shelving that extended back into the depths of the building on one side and what felt like discarded window shutters on the other. He assumed the straw had been used to cover the stored ice, which he imagined was cut from the lake during the winter and then used all summer. This, of course, was back before refrigeration, which didn’t become generally available until the 1920s.


Jack leaned the shovel against the wall within inches of the outer door so that he could grab it quickly if needed. He then reached behind him to feel around on the wall. While he had been pressing up against it, he’d felt something pointed jabbing into his back between his shoulder blades. As someone who’d always hated spiders and was even a tad phobic about them, he wasn’t thrilled about feeling about blindly, but he persisted. The object was definitely hard and about an inch long and oblong with one end sharper than the other, and it was centered on a round base that stuck out from the wall by several inches. Believing it to be some kind of dial, he gave it a twist to see if it would move.


To Jack’s surprise, it did turn and when it did it was accompanied by a definitive click and a whomping sound as a number of overhead lights switched on, filling the old icehouse with bright illumination and causing him to squint to the sudden glare. What he’d been pressing his back up against was a very old-style electrical switch. It seemed as if the icehouse had been electrified, maybe even as early as toward the end of the nineteenth century.


Jack quickly glanced around. What was obvious was that the icehouse was currently not being used for anything other than storage, old window shutters leaning against one wall and shelving 
against the opposite with a variety of objects like old appliances and cardboard boxes. There was no sign that the Netherlanders were using the space nor any evidence that they had even been in it, making him wonder if they even knew it was electrified.


With illumination, Jack’s first order of business was to examine the door. After he’d been locked in for five or ten minutes, he’d blindly felt around it and even lunged against it several times with his shoulder to the point of pain, testing its integrity. As a heavy, insulated, metal door, there was no question of its soundness, and he had quickly given up any ideas of forcing it open, and since it opened out, he didn’t even have access to its hinges. And now able to examine it, he confirmed his original assessment. Short of an electric drill or a stick of dynamite, the door was an insurmountable barrier.


Giving up on the door, Jack turned around to look back into the depths of the icehouse, which he estimated to be at least fifty feet deep and maybe twenty-five to thirty feet wide. As he did so, he shivered, which he’d been doing intermittently. Dressed only in a bathing suit and no shoes, he couldn’t help but appreciate the icehouse’s ability to keep out the summer heat as he was feeling progressively colder. What was currently going through his mind was whether any of the cardboard boxes might contain discarded clothing. Although he wasn’t terribly optimistic, he thought it was worth checking.


Unfortunately, it turned out that almost all the boxes contained aged paper records of the bankrupted Bennet Shoe factory rather than personal items, so no old sweaters, trousers, or even a blanket. Equally disappointing was that among the old appliances there wasn’t anything that might have replaced the shovel as his only weapon.


After searching through the last box, Jack straightened up and 
looked back toward the icehouse door, struggling to maintain some semblance of optimism about his plight. But it was difficult, and among his other regrets, he lambasted himself for not even leaving Laurie a note about his going out in the canoe and with at least the vague possibility of using the Bennet Estate springboard. As it was, he knew the canoe would be found abandoned, and since it would be the only clue of his disappearance, everyone would assume the lake was the guilty party and certainly not the Netherlander militiamen.


Trying not to allow anger to monopolize his mind, he turned his attention to the opposite side of the room, which was dominated by the discarded shutters from the house. Since the house was so large with so many windows, there were a lot of shutters of varying sizes, even many up to eight or more feet high for the first floor, triple-hung variety. Why they had all been saved and not reused was a mystery because they were impressive with their exquisite Gothic detail, probably handmade by talented carpenters back when the house was originally built. His guess was they hadn’t been used due to their very dilapidated state, since refurbishing them would have required significant effort and expense. At the same time, because of their uniqueness, he could imagine why there would have been a reluctance to dispose of them.


As he started back toward the outer door, he noticed some shutters were not leaning up against the wall but against another object, such that he could see a space between them and the wall. Curious, Jack struggled to look between several stacks of the particularly tall, first-floor shutters, and his efforts paid off. The shutters were leaning against what appeared be a number of large, fancy, old-fashioned, Louis Vuitton-like cruise trunks.


Believing that such luggage had a reasonable chance of containing clothing, Jack started moving the giant shutters across the 
room. He had to move a lot of shutters, but eventually he exposed four trunks. Considering the amount of dust and cobwebs on them, they had been in the icehouse for a much longer period of time than the shutters, maybe even up to a century or more.


Dragging them out into the center of the room one by one, Jack opened each in turn. Unfortunately, he was disappointed, as each one was totally empty of any and all contents in any of their multiple, custom designed storage spaces and drawers. But as he was navigating the fourth trunk away from the icehouse wall, he noticed that the stack of first-floor shutters immediately beyond this final trunk was not leaning against a bare wall but rather a second door! He could just see about an inch of it and its left-sided trim.


With sudden surprise, Jack abandoned the old cruise trunk, which he assumed was going to be as empty as the first three, and started moving shutters away from this concealed door. When he pulled away the final shutter, he found himself looking at a wooden, interior-style, paneled door devoid of any locking mechanism or insulation, which also opened outward with no hinges visible. It was situated a good twenty-five to thirty feet from the entrance door along the left side of the icehouse, meaning it had to lead into some kind of underground chamber since the icehouse was built into the hillside.


With mounting curiosity, Jack moved the last shutter and put it just far enough away so that he could reach the door handle. Grasping the knob, he tried to turn it, which it did reluctantly. After significant effort, he was relieved when the door at least cracked open. Then putting his shoulder against it, he was able to push it fully open while it let out a loud, agonizing squeak as if it hadn’t been opened for a hundred years or more.


As some light from the icehouse found its way into the space 
beyond the door, Jack was able to make out mold covered masonry walls and a few steps leading downward. The air wafting out was significantly more humid than that in the icehouse itself. Stepping aside to allow more light to enter, he felt a tinge of encouragement as he recognized he was looking into a passageway, rather than the mere side chamber he’d anticipated. Even more encouraging from remembering the estate’s layout was that it was heading in the general direction of the house.


What suddenly made total sense to him was what he’d found was a way for a wealthy family like the Bennets to access their icehouse in inclement weather. Before the advent of refrigeration, ice was the main way of preserving food.


Although he tried vainly to suppress his growing optimism, he thought in all likelihood he was looking at an underground tunnel to the Bennet House. He was well aware the house was currently occupied by four highly armed and obviously murderous Netherlander militiamen-cum-biomedical-scientist/technicians, but taking advantage of the passageway was still a far better proposition than remaining in the icehouse.


At that moment he noticed something else. Behind the bank of shutters still covering a third of the doorway he could see a second, old-fashioned electrical switch just like the one he’d stumbled across by the door to the outside. Moving over into the opening, Jack reached behind the shutters and tried the switch. Like the first one, it turned and there immediately followed the same whomping sound as the passageway filled with light from antique overhead light fixtures. By crouching down, Jack was able to see along a perfectly straight corridor to a distant flight of stairs leading upward, most likely into the Bennet House.


For a few nervous minutes after the unique and rather loud 
sound of the lights going on, Jack froze and strained to listen for any sound of activity, like a distant door opening. He was momentarily fearful that the electrical sound could have been heard inside the house if someone happened to be on the opposite side of a probable distant door. After several agonizing minutes of silence, he began to relax.


There was no doubt in Jack’s mind that any or all four of his captors could show up at any given moment once they had recovered from their initial shock of his appearance, especially since they had witnessed his snooping into the barn window at their laboratory. At the same time, he thought there was a slight chance they could have decided to immediately flee Essex Falls, although he did consider that idea wishful thinking. They certainly hadn’t flown the coop when they had been apparently confronted by Ethan Jameson or by whomever else they had killed.


Instead, he began to consider whether or not he should take the time to cover up as best as possible his escape route, meaning returning the aged cruise trunks and as much as he could of the discarded window shutters. Ultimately he decided it wasn’t worth risking the time because with the locked and intact door to the outside, they’d look for and undoubtedly quickly find the tunnel no matter what he did to conceal it. What became clear to him was he had to take advantage of the tunnel immediately and hopefully hide someplace in the sprawling house until it was dark enough to make a run for it into the nearby forest. Even that was not going to be easy since he was shoeless.


Although he was fully aware of the dangers of his plan, he felt he had no choice. He couldn’t trust that they wouldn’t just let him languish in the icehouse until he froze or starved to death. The only thing he did do was quickly walk over and get the shovel, his only 
weapon, then turn off the overhead lights in the room. In contrast to the strange, rather loud noise the lights made when turned on, they were completely silent when turned off. He then hustled back to the tunnel doorway and quickly descended the five masonry steps to the packed earthen floor.


Moving at a jog despite his bare feet, Jack covered the distance to the house in short order. Reaching the masonry stairs at the opposite end, he quickly climbed, being careful to be absolutely silent, which was made easier without shoes. It was a surprisingly long stairway. Reaching a small wooden landing at the top facing a closed door, he silently leaned the shovel against the wall. He then checked the door which was made of solid mahogany but unfinished. It had a normal appearing doorknob on one side and hinges on the other, indicating it opened inward. He then squatted down to carefully put his ear against it. Hearing nothing after several minutes, he leaned back and looked for an electrical switch equivalent to the one at the tunnel doorway in the icehouse. As he expected, there was one, and he was able to switch off the tunnel lights, which he thought wise to avoid any line of light escaping into the house when he cracked the entrance door. He had no idea where in the house the tunnel door was located but hoped it was in some out of the way location, which seemed probable since the Netherlanders were seemingly unaware of the tunnel’s existence.


Grasping the doorknob, he slowly and silently turned it all the way in one direction. He then cracked the door very slowly, which required a bit of force as it had apparently not been opened for a considerable amount of time. When it was open enough to allow in a narrow, vertical beam of dim light, he held his breath and listened. He heard absolutely nothing, making him wonder anew where in the house this access door might be located. Originally 
he thought it would have connected to the basement level since it was an underground passageway. But with more than a full flight of stairs, he assumed it was going to be somewhere on the first floor. Since it had served as a conduit for ice for food preservation, it made sense for it to be near the kitchen and servants’ area.


Slowly pulling open the door enough to afford a very narrow, slit-like view of the room beyond, Jack was quickly able to see it was a moderately large, pantry-like storeroom probably just off the kitchen with an opposite wall of fancy mahogany shelving. The shelves were filled with various foodstuffs and other household necessities. From the quality of the light, Jack assumed the room was windowless with the ambient light coming in from an open doorway and not windows.


Just when he’d built up his courage to pull the tunnel door open a bit wider to see more of the room, he heard approaching voices, causing him to quickly but silently push the door shut in a minor panic. Painstakingly careful not to make a sound, he slowly let the latch bolt return into its striker plate. Then equally quietly, he leaned his ear against the door and found he could hear the people beyond with ease. What surprised him was that they were speaking English instead of Dutch or perhaps some other language, which he assumed they’d be speaking when by themselves. In keeping with all the other surprises, he wondered what the nationality of these men was in reality. Somehow their being Dutch seemed to make progressively less and less sense, especially when not speaking the language when they were alone.


“I think we’re done except for these snacks and drinks,” one man said. There was the sound of bottles gently hitting up against each other as if in a carton being lifted. “Once we get these in the truck, it’s fully packed and ready to go with keys in the ignition, meaning 
we can all just run out, climb aboard, and leave the moment Viktor gives the word.”


“All except for our backpacks,” the second man said, his voice straining as if he too were lifting something weighty.


“Obviously,” the first man said. “What do you think the likelihood is of Viktor deciding to leave in the next day or so? We’ve accomplished what we came for, and I’m getting worried like Alexei. Maybe not as much as Alexei, but the longer we stay the more the risk we’re taking.”


“Viktor has our backs but…” the other man said as his voice trailed off, such that Jack could not make out the rest despite straining to do so. The men had obviously left the room. Then he heard a third voice chime in but could not make out anything that was being said. A moment later there was the sound of a heavy door closing. Then silence.


Jack let out his breath. He’d been unaware he’d been holding it. Unfortunately, the icehouse tunnel terminated in a storeroom most likely near the kitchen, where he suspected this third person now was. Knowing the Bennet Estate was similar to the Hiram House, only larger and grander, there was no doubt the colossal kitchen was by far the most used room, making it more dangerous for Jack to leave his current hiding place. On the positive side, the Netherlanders were clearly oblivious to the tunnel’s existence. Perhaps the door on its storeroom side was designed to be hidden. Seeing how fancy the mahogany shelving was on the opposite side of the room somewhat supported this idea, which he now hoped was the case. Also on the positive side was the realization that if and when it was discovered that he’d managed to escape from the icehouse and how he’d managed it, the lights in the tunnel would suddenly come on. 
Although that would mean he was being pursued, at least it would give him a warning.


With a moderate sense of acceptance and resolve tinged with appropriate fear, Jack turned around and sat down on the top step. In the near total darkness, he rapidly fanned his arms to try to generate a bit of heat as he was shivering and had been for some time. Luckily, where he was currently sitting as part of the Bennet House, the temperature was significantly higher and less humid than it had been in the icehouse or the tunnel.


When he felt a bit warmer, he stopped his fanning and checked the time, congratulating himself for still wearing his old-style, radium dial watch. It was just about seven fifteen, and he wondered if Laurie had gotten back to the Hiram House yet, and if she had, when she would start worrying about his absence. It pained him to think how upset she was invariably going to become, especially when she became aware the Hiram House canoe was missing only to be found empty either floating someplace in the middle of the lake or blown against the eastern shore. If the situation were reversed, he knew he’d go ballistic with worry and fear.


He then made out what sounded like the same heavy door he’d heard moments earlier opening and closing followed by distant voices. Although he didn’t get up, he glanced back at the outline of the door to the storeroom, which he could just barely discern in the darkness. The voices got mildly louder before dropping off again, making him believe that the men he’d heard earlier had briefly cut through the corner of storeroom to pass into the kitchen. He then noticed the light defining the door got marginally brighter, making him guess lights had been turned on in the kitchen.


Facing back around to again stare into the darkness, he tried to console himself that he was in for a long wait.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 28


Friday, July 25, 8:05 
p.m.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


Alexei Ivanov had never felt quite so on edge as he did back when he’d arrived at the barn, half expecting at any given moment to hear approaching vehicles or worse yet, police sirens announcing an active search for Jack Stapleton. His level of anxiety had been such that he wondered how he was going to get through the next few hours, much less the next few days. It was as if he were on a precipice, and General Viktor Mikhailov was deliberating nudging him closer and closer to the edge.


As if in response to his angst, Alexei had never worked quite so intensely and with such concentration as he had while doing the third premature determination of the theta prion concentration. From the moment he’d donned the protective gear, he’d thought of nothing other than what he was doing as a way of calming his otherwise frazzled nerves. Thanks to his intense concentration he was almost done.


Using a calibrated pipette to add the calculated amount of colorimetric analyzer, Alexei swirled the graduated vial for several minutes to make certain it had mixed evenly. He then compared the color achieved with the accompanying chart. Once again he was impressed that there was any theta prion detectable at all, and interestingly enough, the detected concentration was again slightly higher than the previous one, confirming that this current batch of Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast was definitely a wonderfully robust strain. But Alexei didn’t write this result down in the logbook. Instead, he arbitrarily doubled it to make the level harvestable, even if on the low side. His plan now was to bring the logbook itself up to the house and show it to Viktor as proof he could immediately do a rapid harvest, and then he and Dmitry could drive it into town and dump it into the municipal water supply. His hope was for the four of them to get the hell out of Essex Falls and be on their way north to the border late that night or early in the morning the latest.


As Alexei removed his protective gear, all his earlier anxieties, which had been temporarily masked by his work intensity, came back in a rush. With his pulse and blood pressure rising all over again, all he could think about was getting back up to the house and getting the meeting with Viktor behind him. He certainly wasn’t looking forward to it, which was the understatement of the year, especially since Viktor and his volatile reputation so intimidated him.


And on top of everything else, Alexei had a new concern. He’d never in his career falsified data before and considered it a major violation of principle, and he worried he might do or say something stupid and thereby give himself away. He hated the idea of having to lie about his work, but at the same time, he thought he had no choice.


Leaving the barn and pulling the door closed behind himself but without bothering to reengage the padlock since he hoped to be returning forthwith to do the supposed harvest, he started power walking up toward the house clutching the logbook to his chest. The sooner he got the meeting with Viktor over with, the better off he’d be. But with the very first steps the Glock in his pocket thumped heavily against his thigh, reminding him of the damn forensic pathologist, Jack Stapleton.


Coming to a sudden stop, Alexei briefly glanced over at the front of the icehouse while the question flashed through his mind whether or not he should take the time to detour and shoot the goddamned man to at least take care of one loose end. But he immediately nixed the idea as he acknowledged that what he really wanted to do was not just kill the meddling freak but get rid of him completely, meaning having him join Ethan and JD. But he quickly recognized getting that done would take too long, and he couldn’t do it by himself. Just getting the body from the icehouse to the dock on his own would be nearly impossible.


Alexei recommenced his power walking. Turning his attention back to the main house and the tense issue at hand, he found himself now worrying that his growing nervousness alone might give himself away and cause Viktor to question the results. This new concern brought Alexei to a second stop. Recalling Viktor’s capricious and violent reputation, there was little doubt in Alexei’s mind that falsifying data on a major governmental sanctioned operation could very well cost him his life.


For a few moments Alexei stood halfway from the barn to the house debating if he should change his mind about fudging the concentration results. He truly had no idea what would happen if Viktor suddenly did suspect what he was doing. Unfortunately, 
knowing the man from having spent more than a month living with him, Alexei had to at least consider the worst-case scenario, which was alarming. And yet, thinking about the risk Viktor was already forcing them to take on by delaying their departure spurred him forward.


Alexei had little choice. The threat of their capture by the American authorities was just too damn high and getting higher with each passing minute and thereby trumped other concerns. Besides, there had never been any question of the validity of his work. Taking a fortifying deep breath, Alexei went back to his power walking. Within minutes he reached the base of the stairs leading up to the porch, and he proceeded up without further hesitation. He entered the house and headed directly into the vast kitchen where he was confident everyone would undoubtedly be. It was after 8:00 
p.m.
, and they had yet to have their evening meal.


As he expected, he was correct. Viktor, Nikolai, and Dmitry were in the kitchen, but the scene wasn’t quite as he anticipated. All the lights were on over the expansive granite-topped island, even though the sun was still streaming in through the western-facing windows. More surprising, all three were sitting stiffly in a row on the opposite side of the kitchen island as if they had been in the middle of a serious conversation but had been interrupted by Alexei’s arrival. Instead of interacting in any way, they were all silently staring at Alexei across the granite expanse as he approached the opposite side.


Alexei avoided their silent stares as he rotated one of the barstools and took a seat. Only after placing the logbook onto the granite top did he look up at the three. Their neutral expressions hadn’t changed nor had their postures, which in and of itself made Alexei feel uneasy. A few papers were strewn about in front of them, which 
Alexei assumed were copies of the texts Viktor had mentioned he would be sending to the GRU and FSB concerning their upcoming departure. Why they were in such disarray, he had no idea. But what really caught his attention, and which was far more unsettling, was that on top of the loose papers was one of the many handguns they had in the house, and they had a fair number thanks to the Diehard Patriots requests for professional evaluations. It was a large, cumbersome .44 Magnum revolver with a long barrel and with bullets visible in its cylinder even from across the island. The gun’s position was more or less in front of both Viktor and Nikolai. Behind them an AR-15, only partially visible from Alexei’s position, leaned against the kitchen wall.


The rifle didn’t bother Alexei in the slightest as it was probably the one that Dmitry had grabbed from the storeroom when they dashed out of the house to intercept Jack Stapleton. The presence of the pistol caused Alexei a stab of fear as it pointedly reminded him of Viktor’s reputation. And why was it there in plain sight? Had the three been examining it and debating its pluses and minuses, which had happened on occasion in the past? All the firearms were normally kept in the storeroom, either on the open shelves or in one of the many closets. Only half aware he was doing it, Alexei adjusted his pants so that his pocket was more accessible, rationalizing to himself that he didn’t want to be sitting partially on the Glock, as it was uncomfortable.


“Were you able to measure the theta prion concentration?” Viktor asked in kind of a curious monotone, breaking the heavy silence. In Alexei’s sensitive state, it seemed more of a statement than a question and added to his continued puzzlement and discomfort.


“Yes, sir!” Alexei said sharply, trying to sound definitive, even martial.


“Well, Corporal,” Viktor said in the same monotone. “What did you find?”


“I found, sir, finally some good news,” he said, making the sudden decision despite his nearly overpowering nervousness to go ahead with his “fudging” plan. He readjusted himself again on his barstool and even managed a nervous smile. “Let me say this: We have been lucky. It seems that the particular Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains, which happened to incorporate the excellent vectors that you and Nikolai formulated Monday morning, are wonderfully robust. They have been reproducing like rabbits and working overtime with their protein production. Check this concentration, sir!”


With that positive introduction, Alexei slid the logbook almost like a hockey puck across the granite expanse directly to Viktor. It stopped within arm’s reach, and Viktor pulled it toward himself and flipped it open. He looked at the figures a moment before shoving it in front of Nikolai.


“As you can see,” Alexei continued. “The concentration of theta is a bit more than double the last determination, which means I can go ahead and do a harvest. It won’t be our biggest yield by a long shot, but it is at least on the positive side of the cutoff. I’m confident we can even make the dump in the water system tonight, meaning we can be on our way to the border sometime early tomorrow morning.”


Alexei’s surprise and uneasiness now verged on physiological distress. Viktor didn’t respond verbally or otherwise but rather just stared back at Alexei with an irritated expression that if anything seemed to be hardening. With rising alarm Alexei glanced at the other two, but he couldn’t read anything into their expressions either.


“I’m surprised, sir,” Alexei managed with difficulty, his voice faltering. “I thought you’d be pleased at this positive result.”


“Pleased?” Viktor yelled as his face flushed with sudden fury. “Pleased in the face of such traitorous insubordination. I feared you’d distort the results and meant to have Nikolai verify them. Never did I suspect you would go to this extent. This is beyond the pale and calls for much more than a court-martial.” With that, Viktor lunged for the .44 Magnum, struggling a bit due to its unwieldy weight and the length of the barrel.


Alexei saw Viktor go for the gun and in self-defense and without thinking, he did the same, drawing the Glock out of his pocket with remarkable ease, and as Viktor was bringing up his weapon, Alexei was already holding his gun with both hands, pointing directly at Viktor’s face. Reacting by reflex more than thought but believing he was about to be shot, Alexei pulled off several rounds.


Alexei’s first shot hit Viktor in the neck while the second slammed into Viktor’s cheek just below his left eye. Viktor’s head snapped back as a reaction to the dual concussive blows and his arms went limp before his body slid forward in his barstool like a piece of wet spaghetti before dropping out of sight.


While this was happening to Viktor’s body, his gun fell onto the granite and skidded over in front of Nikolai, who snatched it up. He then raised it and aimed it across the island at Alexei. Still responding by reflex, Alexei pulled off two more shots into Nikolai’s face, causing the .44 Magnum to again smash down onto the granite island and now skid toward Dmitry.


As Nikolai’s body disappeared in a fashion mimicking Viktor’s, Alexei’s attention immediately switched to Dmitry, only to see him disappear. In the next fraction of a second the AR-15 disappeared as well, meaning Dmitry had grabbed it and pulled it into himself behind the kitchen island.


“Dmitry!” Alexei called out. But there was no answer. Instead, 
Alexei heard the safety being switched off the AR-15 plus another click that suggested its automatic mode had been switched on. Knowing full well his Glock was no match for an automatic assault rifle with a full magazine, Alexei dropped out of his barstool and without a second’s hesitation ran, bent over, around the edge of the kitchen island, passing the twelve-burner cooktop while he heard a hail of bullets splintering the wall behind where he’d been sitting. A fraction of a second later, he reached the kitchen island’s far corner, and without a millisecond’s hesitation, he rounded the end, bent over with the Glock held in both hands at the ready.


Directly ahead of him perpendicularly facing away was Dmitry. He was holding the AR-15 at waist height, still blasting in the direction of Alexei’s vacated seat. “Dmitry!” Alexei called out again over the din. Unfortunately, instead of responding verbally, the stunned Dmitry started to turn in Alexei’s direction, swinging his rifle around, which he was still firing and causing absolute mayhem in the kitchen, hitting all the hanging cookware in a cacophony of noise and destruction. Once again within a split second Alexei responded by self-preservation reflex, shooting Dmitry twice in the chest, causing him to stagger backward several steps from the impact and stop firing. He then dropped the rifle as he seemed to struggle to retain his balance. His expression suggested confusion as he looked down at his chest like he had no idea of what had just hit him. A second later his legs gave out, and he crumbled in a heap on the floor.


“Oh God, no!” Alexei screamed, and with his ears still ringing from the godawful spray of 5.56mm ammunition all around the kitchen, he tossed the Glock aside, and rushed over to Dmitry. He grabbed him under the arms and pulled him out straight. Then he tore open his shirt causing buttons to pop off in all directions. 
There in plain sight were two sharply defined entrance wounds. One was in the right chest, the other dead center. There was very little blood. Most of that was now coming out his back and spreading out on the floor along the sides of his body. He was still breathing but barely, and it was raspy.


“Oh God!” Alexei repeated as he stood up. He knew Dmitry wasn’t long for this world. “Dmitry! Why, why did you want to shoot me?” Alexei yelled accusatorily down at the dying man. He then looked over at the bodies of Viktor and Nikolai wedged between their barstools and the kitchen island. Viktor he thought he understood to a degree thanks to his reputation, and Nikolai’s actions he explained as coming from his being a hopeless sycophant. But Dmitry’s actions were a total shock. “What a freaking disaster,” he cried and it was all so unnecessary.


Shaking his head in dismay and disbelief at what had just happened in the last sixty seconds, he stepped over, pulled the two barstools away from the kitchen island, and checked the other two victims. Although Nikolai was still breathing shallowly, it was clear he was dying. He’d taken two shots through the center of his forehead just above his eyes. Viktor was already a corpse, clearly dead.


As Alexei straightened up and glanced around at the utter destruction Dmitry’s indiscriminate AR-15 firing had caused, the full reality and implications of what had just transpired and, more important, what it meant for him hit Alexei like a tsunami. He was somehow alive despite three capable people wanting him dead, but he was now utterly alone in a hostile world. He was not only homeless but also country-less. Under these circumstances, there was no way he could return to Mother Russia and explain why only he managed to get out of America while all three of his fellow militiamen, including a general and a renowned scientist, had been killed. 
As for America, he knew he’d be relentlessly pursued when the loss of life and destruction at the Bennet Estate was discovered, much less the dumping of infectious prions in a town’s municipal water system.


It was as if a huge, dark, smothering blanket was settling over Alexei, forcing him to look back over at the Glock that he’d tossed aside. It was calling out to him as a rescuer, a savior. With a sudden sense of purpose and direction, Alexei walked over and snatched up the weapon.




OceanofPDF.com















Chapter 29


Friday, July 25, 11:15 
p.m
.


Bennet Estate


Hamilton County, New York


For probably the hundredth time during the last hour, Jack looked down at his radium dial watch in the otherwise near total darkness of the landing at the head of the stairs leading down to the icehouse tunnel. Each time he wondered anew what in the world he should do. It was now quarter past eleven. His original desperate plan had been to try to stay warm and wait until the wee hours of the morning and then take the risk of carefully venturing from his hiding place while the Netherlanders, or whoever the hell they are, were sleeping. But that plan had been shattered by the shocking eruption of automatic gunfire for a full minute in close proximity to his hiding place and sounding as if it were causing horrendous destruction. At the time, Jack had dived for cover, instantly descending four or five steps to crouch below the lip of the landing. He was terrified of stray bullets coming through the door.


This appalling episode of machine gunfire had followed closely 
behind several isolated gunshots although it had all happened so rapidly, Jack questioned his memory. A few minutes after the automatic weapon had silenced, he then heard someone cry out seemingly in anguish, but what was said was unintelligible.


Jack had been hunched down in the utter darkness for several minutes following the automatic weapon fire and was just thinking about rising up and returning to the landing, when there had been another isolated single shot, making him duck down again. There he remained for up to another half hour until he started shivering again. At that point he’d cautiously returned to the landing where it was distinctly warmer. He’d even put his ear back against the door for a few minutes in hopes of learning something, but all was quiet.


It had now been about three hours since Jack had heard any noise whatsoever from beyond his hiding place door, which made him wonder what the hell was going on. By eight thirty the light around the door had begun to fade, which Jack assumed was due to the sun setting. But then he noticed that the light did not go away completely even by nine o’clock. This suggested to him that there were some lights on in the kitchen beyond the storeroom, but there’d been no accompanying sounds of anyone moving around nor any sounds of conversation.


As the time had crept ahead, Jack had had lots of opportunity to try to make some guesses about what had most likely happened. The only thing he could imagine was that there had been a firefight between Netherlanders. With nothing else to do but think about it and to keep his sanity under enormously stressful conditions, he’d found himself wondering, if he was correct, who and how many of the four might have prevailed. Obviously, at least in his imagination, it would have been most likely whoever had had the automatic rifle.


Jack looked back at his watch yet again and saw that another five minutes had passed. Maybe, just maybe, the reason he’d heard absolutely nothing for three hours was because there were no Netherlanders left in the house or even Essex Falls…


With this optimistic idea in mind, Jack returned carefully by feel to the door and again put his ear to it. Once again he was absolutely certain: There were no sounds on the other side. All he could hear was a slight ringing in his own ears. Leaning back, he looked at the narrow line of dim light that was seeping in from around the door frame. That hadn’t changed one iota over the last hours. Putting it all together, he made a difficult decision. Although it was hardly the wee hours of the morning, he was going to venture out, but do it very slowly and carefully, deciding ahead of time that he’d return to his hiding place in a flash if he heard anything at all.


To prepare, Jack fanned his arms for a few minutes even though he wasn’t shivering at the moment. He also did a series of deep knee bends and then bent over at the waist to touch his toes to stretch his back, which he found was disorienting in the dark. All his muscles were tight from the cold and disuse. When he felt somewhat prepared, he slowly turned the door handle until it stopped. He then cracked the door, all the time listening intently.


When he still heard nothing, he very slowly pulled the door open about two inches, affording him a narrow view of a small portion of the storeroom. He could just make out the shelving on the other side, but the light in the room was dim now. He waited for a minute, but when he still heard nothing, he pulled the door open far enough to allow him room to pass through, but he still held back. Instead, he looked at the storeroom side of the door he was holding open and could see that it was paneled as he assumed the wall was on that side of the storeroom. There was also no doorknob 
but rather a clever, camouflaged release mechanism. It was certainly a hidden door.


After several minutes passed without sound, Jack held his breath and stepped out into the storeroom. As he did so he kept hold of the hidden door’s frame in case he wanted to quickly disappear back inside. With his pulse racing, he rapidly glanced around the room, which was rectangular about ten feet wide and twenty-five feet long. To his right were two Gothic-style open archways, one at the very end of the room, which led into what he guessed was a mudroom-cum-foyer. Although the room was dark, he could just make out what appeared to be a very welcome door to the outside.


The second open archway was on the opposite wall but at the same end of the room. It was through this archway that all the storeroom’s ambient light came, and Jack could immediately tell it led into the kitchen. Even from where he was standing he could see the corner of an old wood-fired stove similar to the one in the huge Hiram House kitchen. The problem was that for Jack to get to the beckoning outside door, he would have to pass the open passageway into the kitchen and be exposed to whomever happened to be in there.


A quick glance in the opposite direction and seeing a closed door at that end of the storeroom strongly suggested to Jack that the Bennet House floor plan was remarkably similar to the Hiram House’s. If that was the case, then the closed door led into what had been the servants’ quarters with no exit to the outside.


All these thoughts flashed through Jack’s mind in milliseconds, and he rapidly returned his attention to the open archway into the kitchen. It was from there that danger threatened. Unsure of exactly what to do, he stayed where he was. He was straining to listen for the slightest sound coming from the kitchen or from the rest of 
the house for several more tense minutes when one of the kitchen refrigerators’ compressor kicked on, emitting a sudden, loud stuttering sound. Jack reacted more by reflex than thought and was halfway back into his hiding place before his mind identified what had broken the heavy silence.


With a sense of relief and a roll of his eyes at his own behavior, he backed out of the hidden doorway and resumed listening to the sounds of the house but now over the noise of the refrigerator’s compressor. After about four or five minutes, the motor turned off, replunging Jack and the rest of the house back into total silence.


After another five minutes of listening and hesitation, Jack finally let go of the hidden door frame and began to take slow, baby steps toward the archway into the kitchen. Several times he stopped to listen, but then when he heard nothing he would recommence his progress. He approached by first crossing the storeroom to the side with the shelving. As he moved closer to the passageway, he got more and more tense. Finally, he got to a point where, by just leaning progressively forward, he would be able to see if there was anyone present. If the layout was the same as the Hiram House, he expected there’d be a large kitchen prep island.


Holding his breath, he started to bend forward but stopped when he saw a body. It was lying stretched out in a pool of blood on the wide planked floor with its shirt opened to reveal a bare chest. An AR-15 was lying nearby. Leaning out a bit farther he could then see the whole kitchen including its prep island, which was brightly illuminated by a bank of overhead lights. On the right-hand side of the island, he saw two more prone bodies pressed up against the island’s cabinetry.


At that point Jack was about to sprint as quickly and silently as possible past the open archway, through the mudroom-foyer, and 
out the door. But then he caught sight of yet another body. It was on the other side of the island in a slumped, sitting position against the far wall. Even from where Jack was, he could see that there was what appeared to be a large exit wound in the back of the individual’s head.


Suddenly comprehending that he was looking at four bodies and that there were only four supposed Netherlander militiamen, he understood full well why there had been no sounds after the final gunshot. Guessing that he was the only survivor in the house, he stepped out into the kitchen, where he could appreciate the extensive damage caused by the machine gun fire. Particularly the near wall, including a lot of the glass-fronted cabinetry, was in total ruin, completely shattered and splintered.


Instead of fleeing, Jack advanced into the room, first checking the body that was stretched out. Clearly the individual was dead and had been so for some time. Jack saw two circular chest wounds, meaning they had impacted perpendicularly, and immediately suspected that both shots had penetrated the thorax and undoubtedly the heart, particularly the one directly over the sternum. Moving next to the bodies pressed up against the kitchen island, he was able to see both had been shot in the face with exit wounds in the back of the head. They too were clearly dead.


On the top of the island, he noticed the .44 Magnum revolver and thought briefly about arming himself with it. But after a moment’s consideration, he decided against it, thinking it best not to touch anything in the kitchen as the whole mess was going to launch a major investigation to determine not only what had happened during this shootout, but also exactly what these people had been doing in Essex Falls. Now more than ever, he questioned their origins. Walking around the island, Jack bent down to look at the 
fourth body slumped with his back against the kitchen wall and his legs splayed out in front of him. Jack immediately recognized Alexei. About three feet away from his palm-up right hand was a Glock pistol.


As an experienced forensic pathologist Jack could tell with near certainty that Alexei had committed suicide by putting the Glock’s blunt muzzle into his mouth, angling it upward, and firing. “You poor, misguided microbiologist,” Jack said with a shake of his head, wondering how in the hell Alexei had managed to kill his three militiamen compatriots, especially when one was wielding an AR-15. Thinking back to their two brief interactions after basketball, Jack remembered sensing there was something amiss about this youthful man. Jack just couldn’t have imagined it was quite as bad as it seemingly was, especially if it turned out that he was ultimately correct about their purpose in coming to Essex Falls.


With a final shake of his head, Jack straightened up, turned around, and with great care not to disturb anything made his way out of the kitchen. Once in the mudroom, he hesitated and considered briefly returning back to the kitchen to try to locate a phone to call 911 but decided against disturbing any of the bodies, so he gave up on the idea. He also thought briefly of searching for a pair of shoes and a shirt, but he nixed the idea, too. He truly wanted to get away from the psychological stench of violent death and how close he’d come to being a victim. Besides, after overhearing two of the men talking about packing a truck that was ready to leave at a moment’s notice with keys in the ignition, he thought that would be a far quicker and better way for him to get to safety than navigating the woods in the dark, and he didn’t need footwear to drive.


As he exited onto the wraparound porch, he immediately spotted the black pickup truck he’d seen that afternoon when he’d first 
arrived. In its cargo bed was a tarpaulin covered mound, presumably the cartons of fluid, most likely water, he’d heard being hefted from behind the hidden door. With adequate light emanating out of the kitchen windows, Jack descended the stairs on tender feet and walked up alongside the truck to its driver-side door. Hoping for the best, he pulled it open, and to his great relief, as the interior light came on, he saw there was a key in the ignition.


Without wasting another moment, Jack swung up into the cab and started the engine, which was music to his ears. Switching on the headlights, he drove straight ahead into the long, serpentine driveway that was even longer than the one at the Hiram House. When he reached the main road, he finally began to relax. He hadn’t even realized how tense he’d been and for so long. As he accelerated toward town, it occurred to him that he had to make a decision of whether he should he go directly to Hiram House and relieve Laurie, whom he assumed would be beside herself with fear by then, or should he go directly to the police to inform them of a horrendous, multiple murders–suicide. Almost the moment the question arose, he knew the answer. He’d go to Hiram House. Laurie was his concern. The authorities could wait.


By the time he got to the Hiram House driveway, he was considerably warmer than he’d felt since he’d been locked in the Bennet icehouse, thanks to his having turned on the truck’s heat full blast. Navigating the twisting road at a significant speed, he heard the bottles in the cargo bed forcibly hit up against each other on multiple occasions, hard enough to possibly cause breakage, but he didn’t slow down.


When he finally came skidding around the final bend, he was surprised to see the house brightly illuminated as if a huge party 
was in progress. Every window on the first floor was ablaze. Adding to the effect, the parking area was literally jammed full of trucks, many with empty boat trailers but also cars including Warren’s refurbished Cadillac and several police cruisers. To his chagrin, there were so many vehicles that he had to park some fifty yards away from the house. Under normal circumstances he wouldn’t have minded, but at the moment with no shoes and being in a hurry, he did. As he expected, the sharp gravel made each step painful, causing him to grit his teeth.


As Jack neared the porch, one of the uniformed Essex Falls policemen came out of the house and clambered down the stairs. Jack recognized the man as the duty officer he’d seen the day before when he’d stopped into the police station to chat with Bill Hargrove.


“Excuse me,” Jack said as they came abreast of each other. “What’s happening here?”


“We’re dragging the eastern part of the lake for a missing doctor,” the policeman said. He was obviously preoccupied while apparently hurrying out to his cruiser.


Although Jack was seriously tempted to identify himself as the missing doctor, he decided not to take the time. Instead, as they passed, he simply asked if Chief Bill Hargrove was there at the moment.


“Yes, he’s out on the dock,” the policeman called out over his shoulder.


Jack was pleased. He’d certainly made the right choice coming directly to Hiram House. Now, right after he’d put Laurie’s mind at ease, he’d be able to alert the authorities. In the back of his mind, he’d decided to let Bill Hargrove be the first to know, so he would 
be the one to call the county sheriff who in turn would alert the state and federal authorities. At the same time, Jack was still going to call Lou Soldano and let him know as well.


Wasting no time, Jack took the stairs by twos and ducked into the house, starting a rapid search for Laurie. It was easy because just about every first-floor light was on, particularly in the spacious kitchen, which was blindingly bright and where he thought she might be. Unfortunately, the kitchen was empty. Quicky moving into the main part of the house, he found her with Warren, Jada, and Carol Nielson in the library. They were all sitting on the opposing sofas, with Laurie on one facing the others. As Jack sailed into the room still dressed only in a bathing suit, Laurie, who had apparently been speaking, let her jaw drop as she caught sight of him. Then, after blinking several times as if she were seeing a hallucination, she was on her feet. In the next instant she rushed toward him, and they met in a tight embrace with both totally at a loss for words, at least for a few moments. The others, who’d also stood when they saw Jack but held back, now came forward.


Of the two, Laurie was the first to recover, and when she did, she leaned back to look Jack directly in the eye. While still holding on to him tightly, she said with hints of both annoyance and relief: “Where in the hell have you been all night after having left no note and without your goddamned phone? It’s after midnight!”


“I’m sorry,” Jack managed. “I was very stupid but ultimately very lucky. I know that now, and it is a rather long and disturbing story, but let me give you all at least the gist before I run out and inform Bill of a disaster that’s happened over at the Bennet Estate….”




OceanofPDF.com















EPILOGUE


Thursday, October 16, 10:10 
a.m.


(Almost three months later)


Office of Chief Medical Examiner


New York City, New York


With Vinnie Amendola navigating at the head of the gurney and Jack at the rear, they had just maneuvered the recently autopsied corpse out through the double doors of the busy autopsy room on their way to the walk-in cooler when Jack’s mobile phone rang in his pocket. Since he had it on 
Do Not Disturb
 while doing autopsies, with only a few “favorites” allowed to ring through, he immediately called out to Vinnie to hold up.


When he answered, Laurie said, sounding mildly irritated: “Where are you?”


“Vinnie and I are over here at Dunkin Donuts on Second Avenue,” Jack said, unable to control his sarcastic urges. She knew full well where he was in the middle of the morning on a busy autopsy day, with almost thirty cases scheduled. The night before had been hectic for the OCME Medical Legal Investigators, as they had to 
deal with more than the usual number of medical disasters, homicides, suicides, and accidents.


“Oh, please!” Laurie moaned. She’d never been appreciative of Jack’s sarcastic bent. “Are you in the middle of a case?”


“I’m actually at the very end of a case,” Jack said. “Vinnie and I are on our way to the cooler with the body. I’ve got two more to go. What’s up?”


“Lou had called me earlier this morning and said he wanted to stop by and asked if I’d have time to see him,” Laurie explained. “I told him I would if he got here a bit after ten, which he did just a few minutes ago, but he never gave me a hint of what it was about. As it turns out, you should be here, too, even more than I. So, can you come up here to my office right now?”


“I suppose,” Jack said. He wasn’t thrilled with the idea as he wasn’t wild about the bureaucratic side of being a medical examiner, which was where Laurie spent most of her day as chief medical examiner. But with Detective Lieutenant Lou Soldano involved it was a little more appealing. They had done a case together the previous week involving the suicide of a young police cadet, and Jack wondered if it might involve fallout from that sad episode. “Okay! Let me get this body situated, and I’ll pop up,” he added.


“Perfect,” Laurie said and disconnected.


Surprised at the abrupt ending to the conversation, Jack shrugged.


“I’ve been summoned to make a quick visit up to the chief’s office,” Jack called out to Vinnie, who was already showing signs of impatience, which he didn’t feel obligated to hide because of the unique relationship he and Jack shared. Their close working circumstance made him feel more like a partner than an underling.


“Damn!” Vinnie said, rolling his eyes. “That’s more than 
inconvenient. Exactly how long am I going to be twiddling my thumbs down here waiting for your return? We’ve still got two cases to go.” Often Vinnie stayed voluntarily beyond his quitting time to finish a case with Jack.


“I’ll make it quick,” Jack said as they started moving again.


“Yeah, I’ve heard that before,” Vinnie said dismissively over his shoulder.


After they got the current case into the cooler and the next case located, Jack ducked into the locker room, removed his soiled surgical gown, and put it into the laundry bin. Not wanting to take the time to change out of his scrubs, he merely donned one of the short, white doctor coats that were available for such circumstance.


Moving at a fast pace just shy of a jog up the stairs, Jack took advantage of the main corridor to get to the administration area and didn’t slow until he came abreast of Cheryl Stanford’s desk. As per usual, she was using her headset for a call and typing into her monitor all at the same time. When he managed to get her attention, she flashed a thumbs-up sign to indicate the coast was clear. With that encouragement, he entered the chief’s office without bothering to knock and wait for an okay. He was eager to get back downstairs to prove Vinnie wrong.


Expecting to see just Laurie and Detective Lieutenant Lou Soldano, Jack was stopped in his tracks just inside the door. Mildly nonplussed, he was confronted by a relative crowd of “suits”—well-dressed, high-level bureaucrats. Even Laurie was not where she normally would be, sitting behind her massive partners desk, but rather standing in front leaning against it. Jack sensed that she had been speaking the moment he barged in. Lou was next to her, and even he appeared more put together than usual with a clean shirt, his tie cinched up tight under his chin, and his hair combed.


“Please, everyone!” Laurie called out. She gestured toward Jack. “As promised, let me present Dr. Jack Stapleton. And now, if you don’t mind, I’d like to ask at least some of you to introduce yourselves.”


“I’ll be happy to start since I’ll be making the presentation,” a square-jawed, athletic-appearing, nattily dressed man in a dark blue suit said without hesitation. “Dr. Jack Stapleton, I’m FBI Special Agent Ronald Jeffries in charge of the New York Joint Terrorism Task Force, more commonly known as JTTF….”


The moment this FBI agent introduced himself, Jack knew that this surprise, impromptu meeting involved what had become known at the OCME, particularly between himself and Laurie, as the Essex Falls Affair. Although he and Laurie had heard relatively little from the federal or even state authorities due to aspects of the case becoming belatedly classified, they had been kept up to date on what was going on in Essex Falls over the intervening months by Bob Nielson. Bob, of course, was in constant, direct contact with Police Chief Bill Hargrove even though the Bennet Estate murder-suicide investigation had been taken over by a combination of the Hamilton County sheriff, the New York State police, and the FBI. Besides, the OCME had already played a significant role in the ongoing investigation since the bodies Jack had briefly glimpsed in the depths of the lake in front of the Bennet House had been sent down to the OCME to be autopsied.


As Jack had expected, one of the lake bodies turned out to be the missing corpse of Ethan Jameson. The other was identified as John Daniels, who at the time wasn’t even known to be missing. In another particularly stunning surprise, the OCME Toxicology Department, thanks to the expertise of John DeVries, had determined that both individuals had been killed by the use of Novichok, a 
family of Russian nerve agents that includes some powerful binary chemical weapons. These agents caused symptoms similar to some pesticides, only thousands of times more powerful. They’d also been used to poison dissidents of the Russian government, such as the Skripals in England and Alexei Navalny in Russia itself.


Although Bill Hargrove had not been the principal investigator of the murder-suicide, he’d dutifully stayed in close touch with those who were in charge and communicated the findings to Bob Nielson, who informed Jack. Although certain details had become classified, Jack learned that the supposed Netherlander militiamen were actually from Russia, which explained the Novichok. Two were Russian scientists with PhDs in biochemistry and one with an added PhD in molecular biology, and two were scientific technicians, all of whom worked in the Vector Institute in the Russian city of Koltsovo. In addition, all four were active members of major right-wing Russian militia with one being a general, another a major, and the other two corporals.


“…and with that brief background,” FBI Special Agent Ronald Jeffries continued, “I will now ask my equivalent, Detective Lieutenant Mark Schwarz of the New York Police Department, to introduce himself.”


“Thank you, Special Agent Jeffries,” Mark Schwarz said as he struggled to his feet. He’d been sitting on Laurie’s colorful but low-slung couch with his knees up near his face. He was a tall man, not quite as fit appearing as Jeffries, but reasonably trim and sporting an equally short, martial hairstyle. “My name is Detective Lieutenant Mark Schwarz, and I am the NYPD officer in charge of the NYPD contingent assigned to the NYC JTTF. It’s an honor to be here to acknowledge your superb contribution in this serious affair. And now I’d like to turn the floor over to Dr. Susan Blumenthal.”


“And thank you, Detective,” a smartly dressed, somewhat older woman with stylishly bobbed hair said. She was standing close to Laurie and Lou. “My name is Dr. Susan Blumenthal, and I am a senior Epidemic Intelligence Service officer at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or CDC. I’ve been assigned to the New York City Joint Terrorism Task Force specifically to help with the Essex Falls investigation. I want to personally commend you for your deduction that a novel prion was being manufactured in a jerry-rigged microbiological recombinant laboratory and then criminally spread into the community by way of the municipal water system. In that regard, we at the CDC have proven by the use of specially engineered transgenic mice that this particular, never-before-seen prion causes very rapid cerebral damage leading to Alzheimer’s-like dementia, of which there have been one hundred and three cases in the town to date. The Essex Falls event is a major terrorism crisis. Of particular interest, we at the CDC have noted that this novel prion causes Alzheimer’s-like dementia but without the deposition of amyloid, suggesting the need for new directions in Alzheimer’s research. So, once again, thank you, Dr. Jack Stapleton, for the work you did in exposing this abominable episode.”


“And thank you, Dr. Blumenthal, for your concise summary of the CDC’s contribution in this regrettable affair,” Special Agent Ronald Jeffries added while stepping into the center of Laurie’s office to be closer to where Jack had stopped just inside the main entrance door. Agent Jeffries was holding a small black box. “I would like to take this opportunity to present a small token of appreciation from the New York City Joint Terrorism Task Force to Dr. Jack Stapleton.” He then opened the black box he was holding and held it up. Nestled on black velvet was a round medal about two inches in diameter embossed with a gold eagle. “This is the FBI 
Medal for Meritorious Achievement. It’s given to FBI agents as well as other law enforcement personnel for outstanding service in the line of duty. I contacted the Bureau and asked if I could present this token to you, Dr. Stapleton, and received overwhelming support to do so. So, without further ado, I am proud to present to you this small symbol of the JTTF’s appreciation of your service as a medical examiner.”


To enthusiastic applause from everyone present, Agent Jeffries handed the small, open box to Jack. Jack took it and examined it before closing the lid, raising his eyes and glancing around at the expectant faces. He knew he had to say something, but it seemed that his normal ability to retort adeptly had totally abandoned him. All he could think to say was: “Thank you.” When it was apparent to him that wasn’t adequate as everyone in the room continued to stare at him expectantly, he added: “Thank you very much.”


After several uncomfortable beats, someone in the room sensed that Jack had been rendered speechless and began clapping anew. This action unleashed another round of enthusiastic applause from everyone present followed by the suits crowding around Jack to personally shake his hand.


Over the next twenty minutes, Jack was forced to meet everyone who’d attended the impromptu ceremony. Not only did he meet FBI agents, NYPD officers, and CDC members, but also people from the Department of Defense and even the Central Intelligence Agency, all of whom were currently assigned to the NYC JTTF. All this was a surprise for Jack, since prior to that morning he’d never known much about the organization despite learning it had been in existence for over forty years and had been the first of its kind in the country and had stimulated the creation of twenty more in other US cities.


Then abruptly everyone except Laurie and Lou departed en masse as if the group were a single organism. There’d been no announcement. One minute everyone was standing around Jack while individuals talked to him and the next minute everyone was gone.


Feeling mildly disoriented yet suddenly becalmed, Jack responded by walking over to Laurie’s couch and collapsing.


Laurie sensed Jack’s mindset and broke off her conversation with Lou. She was still in front of her desk although now half sitting on it. Lou was still standing right next to her where he’d remained during the presentation.


“My word!” she said with an expression of mild bewilderment. “You look more confused than proud. What’s going on in that brain of yours?”


“I’m depressed,” Jack admitted.


“How can you possibly be depressed?” Laurie questioned with a disbelieving roll of her eyes. “You’ve just been given an impressive award for your service from the FBI. I would have thought you’d be justifiably proud.”


“I’m depressed for two reasons,” Jack said. “First, I’m going to have to face Vinnie Amendola’s well-deserved wrath for once again abandoning him in the middle of a busy morning, which is going to go on for days. Second of all, and most important, I don’t deserve this medal.” He held up the black box and took a deep breath and then let it out noisily like a deflating balloon. “I might have figured out to some degree what was going on in Essex Falls but not enough to keep from blundering into a situation in which I probably should have been killed. I understand now that I was lucky that my showing up unexpectedly like I did apparently put the Russians into such a frenzy that they thankfully were unwilling to take the time to deal with me. I mean, I questioned the origin of the supposed 
Netherlander militiamen on multiple occasions, but I was stupid enough to uncritically accept someone else’s poor judgment, and I certainly shouldn’t be rewarded for that under any circumstance. I’m afraid this medal is only going to remind me of my folly.”


“Oh, good Lord,” Laurie commented with a shake of her head. “Sometimes I truly don’t understand Jack Stapleton, even though I love him.”


“Hear, hear,” Detective Lieutenant Lou Soldano said. “My feelings 
exactly.”




OceanofPDF.com

























Photograph of the author © John Earle






Robin Cook, M.D.,
 is the author of more than forty books and is credited with creating the medical-thriller genre with his groundbreaking and wildly successful 1977 novel, 
Coma
. His most recent bestsellers include 
Bellevue,
 
Manner of Death, Night Shift,
 
Viral,
 
Genesis,
 and 
Pandemic
. Cook divides his time between Florida, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts.


Visit Robin Cook Online


robincook.com


 
Dr. Robin Cook




OceanofPDF.com


















				What’s next on
 your reading list?


Discover your next
 great read!


 


Get personalized book picks and up-to-date news about this author.


Sign up now.




_154227411_


OceanofPDF.com



