













OceanofPDF.com



















OceanofPDF.com















Death’s Domain




1
 Although telling him to ‘get a life’ would not be a sensible thing to do.






OceanofPDF.com















Books by Terry Pratchett


TRUCKERS
*


WINGS
*


ONLY YOU CAN SAVE MANKIND
*


JOHNNY AND THE BOMB
*


STRATA


DIGGERS
*


THE CARPET PEOPLE
*


JOHNNY AND THE DEAD
*


GOOD OMENS (with Neil Gaiman)


THE DARK SIDE OF THE SUN


THE AMAZING MAURICE AND HIS EDUCATED RODENTS
*


THE UNADULTERATED CAT (with Gray Jolliffe)
†


THE PRATCHETT PORTFOLIO (with Paul Kidby)
†


The Discworld
®
 Series:


THE COLOUR OF MAGIC
*


EQUAL RITES
*


SOURCERY
*


PYRAMIDS
*


ERIC
*
†


REAPER MAN
*


SMALL GODS
*


MEN AT ARMS
*


INTERESTING TIMES
*


FEET OF CLAY
*


JINGO
*


CARPE JUGULUM
*


THE TRUTH
*


THE LIGHT FANTASTIC
*


MORT
*


WYRD SISTERS
*


GUARDS! GUARDS!
*


MOVING PICTURES
*


WITCHES ABROAD
*


LORDS AND LADIES
*


SOUL MUSIC
*


MASKERADE
*


HOGFATHER
*


THE LAST CONTINENT
*


THE FIFTH ELEPHANT
*


THIEF OF TIME
*


NIGHT WATCH
*


THE COLOUR OF MAGIC – GRAPHIC NOVEL


THE LIGHT FANTASTIC – GRAPHIC NOVEL


MORT: A DISCWORLD BIG COMIC (with Graham Higgins)
†


SOUL MUSIC: THE ILLUSTRATED SCREENPLAY


WYRD SISTERS: THE ILLUSTRATED SCREENPLAY


MORT – THE PLAY (adapted by Stephen Briggs)


WYRD SISTERS – THE PLAY (adapted by Stephen Briggs)


GUARDS! GUARDS! – THE PLAY (adapted by Stephen Briggs)


MEN AT ARMS – THE PLAY (adapted by Stephen Briggs)


THE DISCWORLD COMPANION (with Stephen Briggs)
†


THE STREETS OF ANKH-MORPORK (with Stephen Briggs)


THE DISCWORLD MAPP (with Stephen Briggs)


A TOURIST GUIDE TO LANCRE (with Stephen Briggs and Paul Kidby)


DEATH’S DOMAIN (with Paul Kidby)


NANNY OGG’S COOKBOOK (with Stephen Briggs, Tina Hannan and Paul Kidby)


THE LAST HERO: A Discworld fable (illustrated by Paul Kidby)
†


*
 also available in audio


†
 published by Victor Gollancz




OceanofPDF.com















TRANSWORLD


UK | USA | Canada | Ireland | Australia
New Zealand | India | South Africa


Transworld is part of the Penguin Random House group of companies whose addresses can be found at 
global.penguinrandomhouse.com
.




First published by Corgi Books in 2020


Copyright © Dunmanifestin Ltd/Paul Kidby 1999


Discworld® is a registered trademark


Ankh-Morpork is ™Dunmanifestin Ltd


Black and white illustrations and map artwork by Paul Kidby


Discworld Mapp design copyright © Dunmanifestin Ltd and Paul Kidby


The moral right of the author has been asserted


ISBN: 978-1-409-08371-9


This ebook is copyright material and must not be copied, reproduced, transferred, distributed, leased, licensed or publicly performed or used in any way except as specifically permitted in writing by the publishers, as allowed under the terms and conditions under which it was purchased or as strictly permitted by applicable copyright law. Any unauthorized distribution or use of this text may be a direct infringement of the author’s and publisher’s rights and those responsible may be liable in law accordingly.




OceanofPDF.com















There 
are many Deaths, since there is so much work for them to do.


The Death of the Discworld is a traditionalist, which is appropriate for an anthropomorphic personification whose shop floor is a flat world carried on the back of an enormous turtle. He wears a black robe, carries a scythe, rides a white horse and 
TALKS IN A HEAVY VOICE
 and owes his existence in this incarnation to humanity’s ancient tendency to put faces to names.


He is immortal, although technically the term applies only to those who live forever, and indeed Death does not have a life, as such.
fn1
 He has something subtly 
other.
 The difference is like that between a marvellous view, and a very good painting of a marvellous view.


But … observation, now known to affect the thing observed, also affects the observer …


After hundreds of thousands of years of mindless reaping, the Death of Discworld began to take an interest 
in his job. Who were they, these brief mortals whose one aim seemed to be to make their tiny lives as complicated as possible? Why, when the existence of their entire species was shorter than the tiniest heartbeat of the universe, did they waste time as though they had a permanent supply of the stuff? Was it at all possible that they had some sort of 
secret
?


The observer changed …


Now, in his pursuit of something he has no name for yet. Death has acquired a family, beginning with an adopted daughter, Ysabell, who married Mort, the apprentice he acquired during his search. Both are now dead, at least in the way humans rather crassly understand the term, but on Discworld nothing is that final. Certainly their daughter Susan is fully alive and, while also being fully human, has by some occult genealogy also inherited enough of her grandfather’s traits to be able to walk through walls and move outside the world of clocks. These can occasionally be useful to a young woman of an independent turn of mind.


He also gained a manservant, Albert, once a powerful wizard who was mortally afraid of dying and who ended up embracing the philosophy that, if you can’t beat ’em, you can at least make ’em a cup of tea and keep their house tidy.


Finally, the Death of Rats turned up. Death is strictly 
speaking the death of everything, from whales to things that spend their whole short life growing on damp bread, but (as a result of events in 
Reaper Man
) Death allowed the Death of Rats an independent existence. The little 
skeletal rodent appears to have acquired some traits – a rudimentary sense of humour, a natural cynicism and a general appetite for mischief – that are quite alien to Death himself. Perhaps that is why he allows him to exist.




And somewhere along the way Death built himself a house and garden. He does not sleep, he is merely a social eater, he has no interests, hobbies or pastimes – and yet, somewhere along the line, he has got it into his skull that perhaps he 
should
.


The house and grounds belonging to the Death of Discworld have no precise location in time and space because these are things that, from Death’s point of view, happen to other people. Death does not need to be close to the shops or handy for the buses. He moves outside the chronosphere.


His property has been modelled piecemeal on things he’s seen. Death cannot create, but he is extremely adept at reproducing real things. Quite often he gets them wrong, because of some basic misunderstanding about use or context, such as the bathroom he created where the pipes weren’t hollow and the towels were rock hard, having been created for the purpose of hanging on a towel rail rather than being soft.




OceanofPDF.com















The Domain …


In the 
distance, there are mountains. No one has ever climbed them, no snow falls on them. They are not mountains for living on. They have been designed as mountains for being a long way away.


Closer to is what might loosely be called moorland, although it is little more than mildly textured surface – not, it should be added, the surface 
of
 anything but simply raw 
surface
, made by using length and breadth and keeping depth at arm’s length.


Actual soil presumably begins a little closer in, at the cornfields. Death added these after a brief spell as a mortal (chronicled in 
Reaper Man
), a state which he felt was fine to visit but you wouldn’t want to live there and perhaps this is why almost everyone ends up leaving. He did spend a lot of time on a farm, where he brought in the harvest – on his return, he created cornfields of his own. They seemed to fill some need in him. He occasionally walks out into the fields and watches them, and listens to them. The grain is permanently golden, permanently ripe and is never, ever, harvested.




Since Death cannot 
create life, it is believed that the grain is real, genuinely grown from seed on real soil. Causing it to appear instantly is child’s play to a being who can manipulate time like a card sharp.


Then the gardens begin. Even where they’re wild, they’re not 
that
 wild. The effect is very similar to those parklands where someone with a great deal of money and patience has employed someone with a great deal of talent and the kind of eyesight that can see for a hundred years and can say ‘It may look a bit of a mess now, but it’ll be a real treat for the great-great-grandchildren.’ It’s wild, yes – but an artful wildness, full of ‘delightful prospects’ that are never quite that good in nature, which just lets trees grow wherever they like. Chaos is another thing life is good at, while Death, when push comes to slice, is instinctively neat.


That may be why he likes bees, and has a number of hives. They are also immortal, if you take the view that the swarm is the organism and the individual bee is merely a cell that is allowed to roam free. They don’t mourn, they don’t weep, and they are neat.


The bees here 
are large and black and, since various shades of black are the norm in Death’s domain, produce thick black honey. It is interesting to speculate what might happen to any human who tasted it.


The fields here are also the domain of Binky. Death’s horse; this is not everyone’s automatic choice of name for the horse of the Pale Rider, but somehow it’s hard, now, to imagine any other. They aren’t fenced. What would be the point?


Out here too is the Pit of Souls. This may be one of those solid metaphors so common on the Discworld, on the lines of The Place Where The Sun Does Not Shine (a deep hole in Lancre, often found to contain unpopular jobs and impertinent requests). The souls of the dead pass through here on the way to wherever it is they go, and a careful listener on the edge of the Pit will hear the echoes of their last words, which in some cases are expletives or sentences like ‘I wonder what it’ll do if I touch 
this
’ and ‘No, the snakes with the yellow stripe are quite harmless, let me demonstrate’. A few hours spent here will make the unbiased listener wonder why humans are thought to be cleverer than, say, mushrooms.


One of Death’s more charming traits is an earnest inability to get the point, and a good example is the Crazy Golf Course. He has seen golf courses:


I CAN 
SEE WHERE THEY ARE GOING WRONG, ALBERT.


‘Yes, master?’


YES, THEY PUT THE LITTLE HOLE SUCH A LONG WAY AWAY, WITH LOTS OF ROUGH GROUND IN BETWEEN. THIS MAKES IT VERY DIFFICULT TO GET THE LITTLE BALL INTO THE HOLE. THEREFORE THE SENSIBLE COURSE OF ACTION IS TO PUT THE HOLE VERY, VERY CLOSE TO THE TEE, THUS ENABLING A COMPLETE ROUND OF GOLF TO BE COMPLETED IN MINUTES.


‘Yes, master, but people wouldn’t think that was much fun.’


BUT IT WOULD LEAVE THE REST OF THE DAY FREE FOR SENSIBLE ACTIVITIES.


‘They’re not usually fun either, sir.’


REALLY? FILING, FOR EXAMPLE, HAS A CERTAIN QUIET SATISFACTION ALL ITS OWN.


‘People don’t look at it like that, sir.’


THEY PREFER THIS GAME, WHICH SEEMS TO BE NOTHING MORE THAN ONE-MAN HOCKEY PLAYED VERY SLOWLY ON AN ATROCIOUSLY-MAINTAINED PITCH?


‘It seems like that, sir.’




STANDING IN A PIT OF SAND SWEARING AT A LITTLE WHITE BALL IS PLEASURABLE?


‘In a … way, sir.’


HUMANS DON’T HAVE VERY LONG LIVES, ALBERT. WHY SPEND THEM STANDING IN A FIELD SCREAMING?


‘Beats me, sir.’


I MEAN, I HAVE ALL THE TIME IN THE WORLD AND EVEN 
I
 DON’T SEE THE POINT.


Albert tried to home in on one. ‘I think, sir,’ he said, ‘that it’s all to do with the challenge of overcoming obstacles.’


ONCE AGAIN I HAVE TO POINT OUT THE FLAW. LIFE ITSELF PRESENTS INCREDIBLE OBSTACLES FROM THE WORD GO.


‘Er … yes, that’s a good point, sir. But 
these
 obstacles, sir, the point about 
these
 obstacles … is that they have a club house.’


AH. ALCOHOL.


‘Yes, sir.’


THERE ARE BETTER THINGS IN THE WORLD THAN ALCOHOL, ALBERT.


‘Oh, yes, 
sir. But alcohol sort of compensates for not getting them.’


Nevertheless Death did go ahead with his own private golf course, designed to meet his own particular requirements. These were quite demanding, since he had very little grasp of the fact that getting a ball into a hole several hundred yards away might be difficult. It is, after all, merely a matter of direction and speed. Things generally go exactly where Death wants them to go.


Although wrapped up in multi-dimensional space-time for the sake of neatness, the course includes one hole three light-years long, several where the speed of Time changes erratically and a couple where gravity varies as well, all in an effort to present Death with a problem that might require a few seconds’ thought. It also has a windmill, that symbol of every crazy golf course. It grinds up the balls very small.


On the other side of the gardens, and built for very much the same reasons, is The Maze. Death had noticed such things attached to grand houses and decided to see what the attraction was:


He walked to the middle. Then he walked out again.


AM I DOING THIS RIGHT?
 he asked Albert.


‘Yes, sir. That’s where you’re going wrong,’ Albert 
explained. ‘The trick is to get lost.’


HUMANS MANAGE THIS?


‘Oh yes. sir. If it’s a really good maze you can get lost for days and people have to throw your dinner over the hedge.’


Albert waited patiently while Death disappeared into The Maze. After about ten minutes Death returned, looking puzzled.


ALL THE WAY TO THE MIDDLE AND OUT AGAIN, he said. I DON’T SEEM TO HAVE THE KNACK.


‘You could try taking some wrong turns, master,’ said Albert.


WELL. IF YOU THINK IT WILL HELP …


Albert got on with trimming the hedge. After a while a voice said 
HELP, HELP, HELP, HELP
, in a rather pathetic way.


‘You managed to get lost, then?’ said Albert.


I BELIEVE SO. HOWEVER, IF I TURN LEFT, RIGHT, RIGHT AND LEFT I WILL BE BACK AT THE ENTRANCE AGAIN.


‘That’s not being lost, sir, if you know where you are.’


BUT I 
CAN’T NOT KNOW WHERE I AM. TALK SENSE, MAN.


‘Perhaps it’d be better if we just thought of it as a large garden ornament, sir,’ Albert sighed.


Later on Death added various temporal discontinuities to The Maze to make it slightly more interesting, but nevertheless regards it as merely a rather inconvenient way of taking a long walk.


To the right of The Maze, the Knobbly Bush garden separates the labyrinthine extravaganza from the more prosaic world of the Vegetable Garden, the province of Albert. There is real soil here. The vegetables are real vegetables. But they are grown, you could say, in difficult conditions.


In some ways, the Domain offers wonderful opportunities for the keen gardener, since everything is under absolute control. The light is rather strange, but seasons and climates can be changed at will, often across the width of a flower bed. Seed sowing is easy. If you decide to grow a species that should have been sown six months ago, you can go back and do it now so as to have it ready. There are no weeds and no pests. Death, having watched many gardeners and even collected a few who succumbed just after the dog ate the prize 
Gloriosa Nervosa
 or a freak frost on the night before the flower show 
browned all the championship lilies, thought that this would be good idea. In fact, it’s no fun at all. Growing a decent parsnip there is not a triumph, a prize wrested from natural perversity and the elements, it’s simply what happens. It annoyed Albert intensely when, just after he’d managed to grow pineapples in a deep warm pineapple pit. Death pointed out that he could have grown them anywhere in the gardens. All he had to do was ask.


Death has even offered to introduce a few slugs. Albert says it wouldn’t be the same. He’d know he could get rid of them whenever he wanted. However a few weeds have been allowed, although the dandelions grew black flowers within a generation (and they have to be cultivated – since time holds no sway here, the dandelion clocks won’t strike …).


It has been said that Death has no taste. In fact he has complete taste. He just lacks a sense of context. A rainbow refracted through cut glass is objectively no better than one through diamond. Humans, of course, know that one of the rainbows is more expensive and therefore the better rainbow. If dandelions were rare, they’d be exquisite; if stinging nettles were hard to grow, devoted connoisseurs would raise them in special glasshouses. Death simply finds it impossible to understand that there is any fundamental difference between a 
rose and a buttercup. Humans say (and don’t believe) that ‘it’ll all be the same in a hundred year’s time’, but only Death actually knows this is true.


There may be no excuse, though, for the rockery in front of the house, but in constructing it Death is merely following that madness of gardeners which causes them to erect little bonsai mountain ranges of rock (or, in the most classically awful cases, lumps of concrete) in order to grow, sooner or later, immovable weeds. He has seen them around and wondered what the point is, especially of the ones built in areas where even lumps of old concrete do not occur naturally. His theory is that it is some kind of worship of a forgotten mountain god.


The rest of the garden consists of elements that Death has seen on his travels and rather liked the look of – the Pointy Tree Avenue, the fishpond, the orchard that grows black apples (and still contains the tree on which, in a moment of desperate jollity, he tried to make a swing for his granddaughter) and various lawns, arbours and a completely useless sundial. There is quite a lot of topiary, despite Death’s belief that a well-cut bush would be one with no leaves on. An unusual addition is the Winter Garden; many gardeners grow various shrubs which give the place a little lift in the winter, but Death simply created a garden where winter 
never goes away. He rather likes the blue shadows and the sparkle of frost on trees.


The Domain is, over all, a quiet place. No gales shake the trees. True autumn never comes. The only sound is textured silence.


It’s a place where Death tries to relax from the problems of the world – knowing that he is one of them.






OceanofPDF.com















All the Colours of Black


The colours 
in the domain tend towards the black, but it is the blackness of a starling’s wing, with its own dark spectrum. It seems to be something in the air, suggesting that funereal colours would be appropriate (which is odd since, as mentioned elsewhere. Death seldom visits graveyards or funerals, unless it turned out that one of the pall bearers really shouldn’t have tried lifting such a heavy weight).


For example, Death likes cats, and has imported a few for that homely feel. The first generation of kittens are all black with blue eyes. They have an ability to walk through walls that exceeds even the skill of an everyday cat.


Then there are the peacocks. Death noticed that houses like his sometimes had peacocks in the grounds, the owners presumably feeling the need to have the lawns covered with very expensive manure and the neighbours awoken at 5am 
by a sound like a gibbon with its head in a bucket, and so he acquired a few. The colours darkened quickly; the patterns on the birds’ tails became … strangely familiar.




No amount of logic has been able to explain the skeletal nature of the fish in the ornament pond, apparently swimming happily enough, and the skeletal birds with featherless wings which nevertheless seem to do everything that birds do. Some human visitors have believed that, if you look very carefully at them when the light is right, you can see the ghostly outline of the invisible flesh. This might well simply be desperately wishful thinking.


But no amount of wishful thinking will do away with the garden gnomes, unfortunately. Again, these are one of the things which Death saw as he went on his rounds, and thought were part of normal garden practice instead of the dangerous illness we know them to be. They are, of course, skeletal, with hoods and robes, but are in the same positions of ingratiating cheerfulness as their rosy-cheeked brethren, except that common gnomes don’t carry scythes. There is, as yet, no Death of Garden Gnomes. But it can only be a matter of time.




OceanofPDF.com















The House …


In W.H.J. Whittleby’s 
Guide to Impossible Buildings
, he says:


‘Many occult and anthropomorphic personifications have built or created homes for themselves, and these generally reflect some aspect of themselves as seen by humanity: there is the great icy Castle of Bones of the Hogfather, the significantly white tower of the Tooth Fairy and of course the chronophonic glass palace of Time. What, therefore, can we make of the house of Death?


‘Reason suggests that it should be dark, brooding, huge, gothic, its halls full of the creaking of stone. Reason does not expect a suburban house from the bide-a-wee school of design, and it certainly doesn’t want it to be called, as it in fact is, 
Mon Repos.


‘This is true mock architecture, timid stockbroker-belt-and-braces stuff, all unnecessary gabling and hollyhocks, clearly designed, if such a word can be employed here, by someone who wouldn’t recognise a corbel 
if it fell on his head. I suppose it is only a blessing that it wasn’t called 
The Laurels or Cosy Nook.




‘And yet, on reflection, the reason becomes clear.


‘Death, significantly, does not see many crypts or coffins. Most people die at home, or at sea, or at least out in the fresh air. Only the extremely unfortunate and the regrettably heavy sleepers actually 
die
 in a graveyard, and in their sad case it’s invariably too dark to see anything. So Death has built for himself what he does see most of: a house, although of rather above average size, suitable for a professional gentleman. He has no taste. If he did, he’d let proper architects live a lot longer.’


The house would tax the skills of even the most imaginative estate agent:


Outside
 
appearance
: suburban – or more correctly, sub-vital, built on the outskirts of life


Location
: unknown, but handy for everywhere


Number of rooms:
 unknown, possibly infinite


Size of rooms:
 variable, usually huge, depending on the perceptions of the occupier


Decor:
 largely black, with a high-quality skulls-and-bones motif throughout.


A key element of the design is Death’s permanent inability to grasp that the inside of things is, by custom and practice, smaller than the outside. He just doesn’t see the link. The human idea that if you go upstairs then whatever is at the top of the stairs should be higher than anything at the bottom seems to him to be fussing over cosmetic details, as does any suggestion that rooms ought to stay the same size for more than a few hours.


The stables, for example, can accommodate a whole herd of horses, although from the outside they look as if they might provide a home for four or five. The hay store fills up automatically. (Death feels that since hay has to be somewhere, it might as well be somewhere useful.)


The only other notable feature in what estate agents call ‘the usual offices’ is the grindstone, the only one capable 
of sharpening Death’s scythe and sword (which are so sharp that, were it not for the peculiar make-up of Discworld physics, the whole place would be destroyed by the atoms that split themselves as they encounter the edge of the blade – as it is, there is merely a strange blue glow and occasionally a smell rather like tin).


There are certain reliable elements to the house, however. The front door, with the ‘Welcome’ mat, opens onto the hall. Downstairs is the kitchen which, since it’s the province of Albert, tends to be left alone; Albert can get grumpy when roused.


There is also, and usually in a fixed relationship to one another. Death’s study, which he really doesn’t need but thinks he ought to have, the Library – which contains the true autobiographies, the books of every aware creature’s life which continually update themselves as they progress, as well as even more esoteric volumes – and the Room of Lifetimers, the heart of the domain.


Here the lives of every living creature pour through what look very much like traditional hourglasses. The glasses appear and disappear as lives begin and end, and the sound of the sand is a subtle background noise through the domain.


There is, around the place, evidence of the various hobbies Death has tried and abandoned. The banjo was a 
complete disaster, although he has had some success on the more mathematical organ, getting as far as page four in ‘Simple Fugues for Little Fingers.’ His paintings (mostly still life) are technically good but no more interesting than a bottle, a pile of vegetables and a boot can ever manage to be – at least, until you look carefully. In fact, unless someone on the Discworld harnesses steam power for automotive force, no hobby to suit Death’s infinite patience and meticulous care is likely to be available – but when that smoky day dawns, and some roaring, 
clanking engine chugs along its rails for the first time, Death will diligently write down ‘000001’ in his notebook, and might almost be satisfied.




Those who have met Death on a social level, as opposed to encountering him on business, have wondered how he can be at one and the same time a walking, talking skeleton with an occasional curry fixation 
and
 the universal force touching the lives of every living creature.


That is because, like Time and War, he 
is
 a personification. The lifetimers are Death, the Library is Death, every blade of black grass is Death. The tiny part of the force that rides the white horse and carries the scythe is just that, the minute head that trails the whole immense, dark comet, one focussed node in the hugeness of inevitable mortality.


Death is everywhere. But somewhere he is buying a chicken korma.








OceanofPDF.com















The Key


1 The Hill of Night


2 The Gazebo
(Death thought it sounded interesting and was quite disappointed to find that it wasn’t some sort of antelope)


3 The Winter Garden


4 The Stream of Unconsciousness


5 Bee hives


6 Orchard


7 Susan’s swing


8 The chicken arks of Regular Eggs
(real Chickens, and Albert insisted they shouldn’t be allowed to go skeletal, because they would look very strange when in lay)


9 Well of Souls


10 The Wood of Silence
(good for primroses)


11 The bridge of just being useful to cross the Stream


12 The Maze of Unforgetfulness


13 The Lawn of Pitiless Infinity and Tennis


14 The Formal Pond Garden of Dreadful Night


15 Rose Garden


16 Technically the Parterre Garden, but generally known as ‘the Knobbly Bush Garden’


17 Stables


18 Flower Garden


19 The vegetable garden for all climates and seasons


20 Potting Shed


21 The pineapple pit


22 Albert’s compost heaps


23 Topiary Garden


24 Albert s workshop


25 The Wheel of Albert’s Laundry


26 The Unimpressive and Rather Small Ravine


27 Grindstone


28 Non-temporal multi-spacial Crazy Golf course


29 The Lawn of Eternal Wandering and Croquet


30 Sundial of Uselessness


31 The Pointy Tree Avenue


32 The Boating Lake


33 Boat House


34 The very dull yet authentic rockery


35 Ornamental fish pond


36 Lily beds




OceanofPDF.com















About the Authors


Terry Pratchett
 was the acclaimed creator of the global bestselling Discworld series, the first of which, 
The Colour of Magic
, was published in 1983. In all, he was the author of over fifty bestselling books. His novels have been widely adapted for stage and screen, and he was the winner of multiple prizes, including the Carnegie Medal, as well as being awarded a knighthood for services to literature. He died in March 2015.


Paul Kidby
 has illustrated Discworld and its inhabitants in 
The Pratchett Portfolio
, The 
Discworld Diaries
 and 
A Tourist Guide to Lancre
. He lives behind an easel in Somerset.




OceanofPDF.com















OceanofPDF.com













Contents






Cover


Title Page


About the Authors


By the Same Authors


The Domain …


All the Colours of Black


The House


The Key


Map


Copyright










2


5


6


7


8


9


10


11


12


13


14


15


16


17


18


19


20


21


22


23


24


25


26


27


28


iv








Cover


Frontmatter


Table of Contents


Begin Reading






OceanofPDF.com





















THIS IS JUST 
THE BEGINNING




Find us online and join the conversation


Follow us on Twitter 
twitter.com/penguinukbooks


Like us on Facebook 
facebook.com/penguinbooks


Share the love on Instagram 
instagram.com/penguinukbooks


Watch our authors on YouTube 
youtube.com/penguinbooks


Pin Penguin books to your Pinterest 
pinterest.com/penguinukbooks


Listen to audiobook clips at 
soundcloud.com/penguin-books


Find out more about the author and discover
your next read at 
penguin.co.uk




OceanofPDF.com



