OceanofPDF.com

The Forever Night
That day, the doctor asked, ‘What brings you here?’
I answered with a half-truth.
‘I’m constantly feeling breathless and anxious, but I have no idea why.’
How did I even end up at that clinic? Aside from being nowhere near my neighbourhood or the city centre, the clinic didn’t come with glowing reviews. If I cast my mind back, I could only say it happened to be a weekend and I was desperate for immediate help – or rather, medicine – to ease my desperation.
The place I found on the internet was in an old building tucked into a quiet market street, fifteen kilometres away by car. As usual, the GPS led me not to the car park, but the main entrance. Conjuring the image of the hanja character for endurance
, I reminded myself to stay calm. After three futile rounds driving past the entrance, I concluded that the
building didn’t have a car park after all, and I ended up at a public parking lot on a nearby street.
Up close, the building was even shabbier than I imagined. Cracked beige tiles plastered the walls, several were missing, and the signboards were draped in a thick layer of dust. To the left of the main entrance was a junkyard masquerading as a shop and on the other side was a stationery shop that made me nostalgic for my elementary school days, twenty years back. Displayed in the shopfront were gaudy red piggy banks printed with the
character for good luck and fortune.
Passing through the cavernous entrance, I was hit with an odour reminiscent of a dingy basement. After casting several back-and-forth glances at the stairs and the lift, I jabbed the clear plastic button. An orange glow appeared behind the upward-pointing silver triangle, yet another throwback to my nineties childhood.
Several moments later, the lift door opened with a mechanical clang. I was flustered. But that wasn’t all. Inside the lift, where one would expect to see a mirror or wall, was another door. Claustrophobia reared its head, and my eyes naturally darted to the stairs behind me. The old lift looked like it’d break down at any moment. I released my finger on the button and, with a rumble, the lift door clamped shut once more.
I turned towards the staircase. There wasn’t a single sign marking the levels. From somewhere above me, a draught blew in. I brought my sweaty palm to the nape of my neck and traced the goosebumps.
You’re in the middle of the city
, I chided myself.
What can happen?
The clinic, it transpired, was on the third floor. Was there a law of sorts dictating that clinics be on the third floor? Random thoughts filled my mind as I climbed up. When I reached the landing, I came face to face with an opaque glass door that had become clouded over the years. I stuck my face close, but it was impossible to peer through. A green sticker slapped across the glass door read:
HANMAEUM CLINIC
.
One Heart Clinic
.
Should I turn back?
Doubt filled my mind, but I’d already come all this way. Gingerly, I elbowed the door open. Because of the thick draught stopper at the bottom, the glass door swung inwards with an uncomfortable squeak as a clear chime sounded above.
I took in the sight before me. Had I stepped into a time machine that had returned me to the past? Specks of dust hung unnaturally in mid-air as if time had stopped. What pulled me back to reality was the middle-aged nurse sitting at
the reception counter opposite the entrance. I cast an anxious look at my hands and fiddled with my sleeves. I knew it was ridiculous, but I needed assurance that I hadn’t been sucked back into the nineties. Of course, in the space too cramped to be called a waiting area, the calendar on the counter confirmed that I was still in 2023.
‘Do you have an appointment?’
‘No, it’s my first time here.’
‘Alright. Please fill in this form.’ The nurse in a light yellow cardigan gestured at the countertop without sparing me a glance. ‘There’re a couple of patients ahead of you. Take a seat and I’ll call your name.’
Thinking that her appropriately bored tone perfectly fit the drab-looking place, I shuffled awkwardly to the long sofa. Sitting on one end was an elderly man with a walking stick, and an appropriate distance away in the middle was a mother-daughter pair who had their backs to each other. Everything about this place was
perfectly appropriate
, even the silence that hung in the air instead of the new-age music one would expect to hear.
Time seemed to stand still again. And then, finally: ‘Kim Jiwon-nim, the doctor will see you now.’
With difficulty, I got up, twisted the cold doorknob to the
doctor’s room and pushed. The door opened with a creak, and I stepped through the frame into the yellow glow filtering from the inside.
‘Kim Jiwon-nim, what brings you here today?’
The doctor flicked his sharp eyes at me and threw out the banal question as he flipped a piece of paper over the plastic chart. I must’ve looked as stiff as a malfunctioning robot.
‘I …’
‘Yes, go on. What are your symptoms?’
‘I’m constantly feeling breathless and anxious, but I have no idea why.’
‘Have you been sleeping well?’
‘Not at all … I only manage to catch a few winks every night, and I also get sleep paralysis …’
‘Has anything happened or changed in your life recently? Something that might’ve triggered stress?’
The man, who looked well into his fifties, leant back against the plush leather chair. If not for his doctor’s gown embroidered with his name
SPECIALIST SEO TAEHYUNG
, he’d look no different from the average guy on the street. The doctor kept his eyes on the chart. Feeling my anxiety peak, I gripped my phone in my hand. How, and where did I start? I thought I was getting better, so why did the demons in my
subconsciousness keep surfacing to destroy my life? I knew why. The reason was tattooed in the folds of my brain, but I couldn’t bring myself to talk about it.
‘…’
‘…’
A heavy silence wedged itself between us. At the thought of saying the words aloud, tears threatened to well up, and I struggled to keep them at bay. The doctor scrawled on the chart, looking obviously bored. He must’ve seen too many patients like me. I swallowed hard and moved my parched lips. The words tripped over one another as they tumbled out of my mouth.
‘Sometime back … my mum passed away.’
‘I see. How long has it been since her passing?’
‘Seven … years.’
‘Seven years?’
‘Yeah.’
The doctor shot me a look. I couldn’t quite read his expression, but it was somehow too much to bear, and I closed my eyes for a moment. I heard an incomprehensible sigh, and he started clicking his pen noisily.
‘I see it’s been quite a while.’
‘Quite a while …?’
‘Yeah. That’s what I said. Of course, we take time to process death. But seven years? You’ve been grieving for too long. You should be way past that stage by now.’
‘…’
‘Holding onto grief is not going to help you get better. You aren’t moving on.’
Grieving for too long …
I pursed my lips, letting those words settle. Grieving for too long. Grieving for too long … No matter how I chewed over the doctor’s words, they didn’t make sense. I blinked slowly.
A ridiculously long time to be sad over your mother’s death.
The realization caught me in a chokehold, and I couldn’t even find the will to respond.
‘I’ll prescribe you a week’s worth of medication. Take it before bed. It contains sedatives, so avoid driving. We’ll monitor how things go after a week, and if the medicine doesn’t work, we can discuss your options.’
I pushed back the chair uncomfortably and stood up. Whatever feelings of nostalgia I had coming here were wiped away in an instant. This place was nothing but cold, hard reality.
Waves of regret washed in and crashed upon me.
I couldn’t write for days. And at night, my bed seemed to repel me, the terrifying darkness weighing down on me and forcing my breath to come in ragged gasps. I couldn’t sleep. The insomniac nights drew on, and I spent my waking hours in a daze, as though my soul was ripped from my body. Day melded into the night. Until sunrise and moonset, sleep evaded me. As the days stretched on, my head pounded as if it was on the verge of exploding. Bloodshot eyes stared back at me in the mirror. I was barely making it through each day.
Had I been suppressing too much? I’d never found it easy to be honest about my feelings. Maybe this was the so-called good-child syndrome. I’d wanted to be the kid who could keep their head down, do well by themselves, and I’d wanted my parents to be proud of me. Maybe that was the crux of my problems.
I turned on my laptop and stared at the white screen. Writing was my only talent – and also my livelihood – and it doubled as a way of confessing my innermost feelings. Right now, I needed to turn the painful lump in my chest into dark letters and expel them from my system.
Think. Come on, think!
I forced myself to focus on the blinking cursor as I tried to wring out some sentences. Lines of meaningless letters formed beneath my fingertips, only to be wiped clean as I hit the delete button. I’d started writing as a form of alleviation and release but now, it was only making me feel worthless. Frustrated sighs punctured my angry jabs across the keyboard.
The first word. The first sentence. The first paragraph. The first page. When it came to writing, the start was always the hardest.
A good beginning is half the battle. Do up the first button right and everything will fall in place.
Trite sayings, but true. Maybe things would become easier once I moved passed the beginning, but for the past month, I hadn’t been able to write a single word.
You’re too hard on yourself.
A voice flitted into my head, and I stiffened. Who told me this, and when? I couldn’t remember, but on second thoughts, everyone who knew me had probably said this at some point.
Don’t hole yourself away. Go out. Nothing like a good walk to boost your mood.
The voice nudged me to step out of my bedroom. Standing at the window of the living room, I stared out at the scenery
drowned in a dreary grey light. Whipped bare by the chilly winds, emaciated tree branches swayed. It was a cold winter.
I hated winter. The cold air at daybreak, the nights that stretched on forever, the temperatures that dipped into negative like my moods, the biting winds that kept me trapped indoors. In winter, I was a bear in hibernation. All I wanted was to curl up in my dark cave.
Hmm, but should I go out for a walk today? I thought about an article I’d read online recently about the Inuit people. When they’re angry, they like to walk the emotion out of their system, and when the anger finally dissipates, the walk back serves as one of repentance and forgiveness. I liked that idea. So, I changed into one of the few winter outfits I owned and left the apartment. Behind me, the door shut with a heavy clang.
I’d moved to this apartment just before winter, so I hadn’t yet had the opportunity to properly explore the neighbourhood. I let my feet guide me forward. With my hands stuffed into the pockets of my thick padded jacket, I puffed out clouds of white smoke as I kept walking.
The biting winds threatened to slice my skin, and I hunched forward involuntarily. I thought back to that day when I’d visited the clinic and thrown the medicine into the dustbin.
Of course, we take time to process death. But seven years? You’ve been grieving for too long. You should be way past that stage by now.
The doctor’s words rose up in my mind. Time had chugged sluggishly outside his room while I made the payment, arranged the next appointment, and sat down in the waiting area to receive my medication. It was as if someone had deliberately held time hostage. The digits on my phone screen seemed to freeze. Everyone else had left. Just as my patience was about to run out, the clinic door swung open and a man rushed in.
Panting, he strode past the reception desk and barged into the doctor’s room. However, he must have found it empty. I was the last registered patient for the day, and even though consultation hours weren’t quite over, the doctor had left.
‘Excuse me, is there anyone here? Hey!’
The man’s face turned an ugly shade of purple as he yelled in the direction of the dispensary behind the reception desk.
The next moment, he stood stock-still and checked the watch on his left wrist.
Tick tock, tick tock.
The man’s eyes darted nervously, and I could almost hear the anxious ticks in my ears. He touched the watch as if it was a precious treasure. In contrast to the frayed blue leather strap, its polished face gleamed in the light.
‘Hey! Help! Someone’s dying!’ the man screamed in the direction of the dispensary.
Someone’s dying.
He probably said it in a fit of anger and frustration, but the words jolted me. An unnatural ringing filled my ears as the ground seemed to warp and surge like sloshing waves. I closed my eyes and shook my head – my defence mechanism whenever I felt a panic attack coming on.
What was happening?
‘Please … help …’
The minute hand on the wall clock ticked forward. At the sight, the man bit his lip and fell into silence. Although he was right in front of me, I had a curious feeling that he and I were in two separate dimensions. An absolute stillness pressed down on the waiting room.
‘Kim Jiwon-nim. Your medicine is ready.’
As the man slumped down in front of the reception desk, the nurse came out of the dispensary. I stood, inched past the man – avoiding his vacant eyes – took the medicine envelope, and fled the clinic.
My heart pounded in my chest and the pills rustled in the bag as I walked down the stairs. The consultation had barely lasted five minutes, but everything else had eaten up
too much time. I’d never felt such strong regret over wasted time.
The doctor’s clinical attitude and the man’s vacant eyes flashed through my mind. And, as if it was the most natural thing to do, I chucked the bag of medicine into the next rubbish bin by the roadside.
Three weeks passed. In that time, I paid the price of suffering through more sleepless nights. But in moments of doubt, I conjured memories of the bulging medicine envelope, the unpleasant conversation with the doctor, and the man who’d rushed in frantically to the clinic. Maybe what I really needed wasn’t the pills or their chemical compounds.
Whoosh
. A sharp gust of wind cuffed me by the ear. I shook my head, trying to snap out of the reverie. Something landed on my shoulder with a splat. It was raining. The grey light wasn’t just the winter gloom but the overcast clouds. The sudden downpour didn’t feel particularly welcoming now that I was outdoors without an umbrella. I held up my hands to make a useless shelter and ran under the nearest awning. The rain brought along a frigid cold and my teeth chattered.
‘Oh God … nothing’s going my way.’
I stood like a wet mouse under the awning. I thought I was hanging in there, but the world with its rain and cold and
dark memories kept nudging me towards the precipice, as if I could never escape the fate of stumbling, falling, breaking, shattering. The rain hit my skin, but it felt like a gaping hole had opened in my heart, letting the wind in from all directions.
Someone’s dying!
Was this how the man at the clinic had felt? His desperate cries reverberated in my ears. What had caused his deep despair? I shook the droplets off my clothes and hair, as if they were the oppressive thoughts in my mind.
Thud, thud.
The raindrops pelted down like bullets. I looked up and realized that I wasn’t standing below a vinyl awning but a rusty slate roof. The wooden deck beneath my feet was chipped in several places. I surveyed my surroundings. The single-storey building, an uncommon sight these days, looked dated. Grimy metal bars covered the opaque glass windows. On the rickety door was an
OPEN
sign.
‘What’s this place …?’
I couldn’t see the signboard from where I stood. Neither did the door give any indication of its business hours. I had no choice but to step out from under the shelter. The sheet of rain blurred my vision, but I caught sight of a small signboard on the building exterior.
A bookshop named after the first consonant in the Hangeul script.
‘Giyeok Bookshop? What an intriguing name.’
I quickly returned to the shelter, wiping the droplets off me. A chill breeze brushed past the back of my neck and rattled the door behind me. I turned. The sliding door had opened a crack, just enough to fit a finger through. I blinked. The weather didn’t look like it’d let up anytime soon, and I refused to walk back to the apartment in the rain.
‘A bookshop … maybe I’ll find something?’
Perhaps a breakthrough for my writer’s block. In the past, I’d found inspiration by looking at the work of other writers. Since I had time on my hands, browsing the bookshop might not be a bad idea. I slotted a finger into the gap and slid open the door, which glided much more smoothly than I’d expected. I stepped through, closed the door and, in that moment, it also felt like I’d shut out the rain. The surroundings hushed. Slowly, I walked deeper into the empty bookshop.
‘…’
Strange.
I was sure the rain hadn’t let up. Just moments ago, it had been dyeing the grey asphalt a darker shade, its rhythmic drum on the slate roof hard and unrelenting. But right now, with only a flimsy sliding door dividing the interior of the bookshop from the outside, I couldn’t hear a sound. The world fell silent. Was it all in my mind? My eyes roved anxiously to take in my surroundings.
The bookshop with its high ceiling was a lot more spacious than I’d expected. How could such a vast space fit inside the building? The image of stuffing an elephant into a fridge came to mind. Was this a dream? Or had I lost my spatial sense? The corridor was lined with bookshelves stretching deep inside, and on each shelf, books were packed spine to spine. Were the books absorbing all the sounds from the outside world? It didn’t make sense.
‘… What’s this place?’
I should leave. As the saying goes, instinct will never betray you. An ominous feeling rose up in me, and I hurried to go
before a panic attack came on. Just as I grabbed the door handle, a warm glow dazzled my eyes. Had the rain stopped? Impossible. I reached out to touch the rigid shaft of sunlight.
‘… How warm.’
Goosebumps trailed my arm. My hand slipped off the handle, from the cold sweat or my trembles, I couldn’t tell. But the strangest thing was, at the same time, an indescribable sense of relief and curiosity washed over me, as if the sunlight pooling at my feet was some kind of tranquillizer.
I wiped my palms on my trousers and steadied my breathing.
It’s okay, it’s okay
, I repeated in my mind, and my heart calmed into a gentle rhythm.
‘Hi? Excuse me? Anyone around?’
I swallowed hard. The lighting over the bookshelves blended in with the sunlight, and in the distance, illuminated by a bright glow, was a majestic tree.
How did I miss that just now? I wondered as I walked closer. How could a tree this size possibly survive indoors? My gaze took in the high ceiling and the green leaves. The tree was like a part of the building, digging its roots deep into the bookshop. Flowers I didn’t know the names of bloomed beautifully.
Ha, must be a decorative prop.
I circled the tree in disbelief. My fingertips brushed against a branch and red blood seeped
out from where a sharp end had pricked me. Wait, the tree was real. In that moment, I became hyperaware of the smell of the wet earth, the light scent of grass and flowers. This ordinary yet perfectly strange bookshop wasn’t a dream.
I turned back to where I came from and browsed the shelves near the entrance. The books were frayed at their corners, the paper faded to a mottled yellow. Had I walked into a second-hand bookshop? I stared at the thick layer of dust on the books. Spurred by curiosity, I pulled one out. The cover illustration looked oddly familiar. I glanced at the title –
Jang Yeongsil.
‘This was my favourite book when I was a kid!’
A gentle breeze rose, lifting the hardcover. The well-thumbed pages flipped over, stirring up a long-forgotten scent. I brought the book closer to my nose. I didn’t think I’d be able to smell it ever again … my childhood home.
Our family didn’t move very often. When Mum and Dad got married, they rented a flat in an old villa on the outskirts of the city and that’s where I was born. Five years later, they bought a decent-sized apartment in the city centre. In between, my brother was born, and Dad became the boss of a construction company. We lived in the apartment for fifteen years.
Mum loved our home. Her keen eye for detail and her loving touch were found in every corner of the apartment.
It was her way of celebrating our family’s success, by making sure that our home was perfectly adorned.
The apartment was our family’s pride. Neighbours who popped by gushed over how spacious our place looked compared with theirs, despite being identical in size and layout. It was where my brother and I grew up. However, the year I turned twenty, our forever home was put up for auction.
I tightened my grip on the book I’d pulled from the shelves as the memories washed over me. I tore my nose away from the pages, but the familiar scent lingered. Jerking out of my reverie, I flipped to the last page of the book. Written in thick green ink, the childish handwriting read:
It’s amazing how Jang Yeongsil overcame the barriers of social class in the book. From now on, if anyone asks me which historical figure I respect the most, I’m going to say it’s Jang Yeongsil.
‘… No way.’
My breath hitched at the all-too-familiar handwriting. Just like at the clinic, it felt as though I’d been transported back in time.
I closed my gaping mouth and quickly pulled out
another book.
Helen Keller.
From the same series of historical biographies that were written for kids. The sight of the warped paper, as though the pages had got wet, made my mouth go dry. Was I reading too much into a series of coincidences? In any case, I had to make sure.
I quickly flipped the pages, my heart drumming faster with every swipe. I had no idea what I was hoping, or not hoping, to see, but I kept going until the last page. Finally, as Helen Keller’s amazing life story ended, the following words were written with marker ink on an off-white blank page:
I can’t imagine being blind like Helen Keller. It sounds scary. Even if I had a good teacher like her, would I be able to overcome the disability like she did? I don’t know.
There was no doubt. These books were mine. Back then, I didn’t tend to use bookmarks, so the pages were creased and dog-eared. I recognized the orange juice stains and the dented edges of the hardcover from when I’d dropped the book in a fight with my brother, all those years ago.
I took a step backwards and surveyed the bookshelf. The shelves from the bottom to the third row from the top were
filled with biographies from the same series, and above, I spotted my favourite childhood novels –
Jane Eyre
,
Stickleback
,
The Little Prince
,
Turbulence
,
and
The Salmon Who Dared To Leap Higher.
Ahn Do-hyun’s
Salmon
had made a particularly deep impression. I first read the book when I was ten and the idea of new life being synonymous with the death of parents felt like a cruel joke. I remember I couldn’t sleep a wink that night. Even now, in my thirties, I can’t eat salmon. Their purity and the noble sacrifice for their offspring would forever be etched on my mind, such was the impact the book had on me.
I clenched my fists. What a strange bookshop. Strange beyond the definition of strangeness. Had I fallen into a dream? Or was I finally cracking from the prolonged lack of sleep?
After my family’s apartment was auctioned in a rush, all my books had been thrown away. It was impossible to fit everything from our apartment into the annex room of my aunt’s hanok house that she’d allowed us to stay in. But how did those books end up here …?
I stood there, unable to move, a mix of emotions roiling in me. The feeling that time was moving slower than usual made everything seem even more surreal. I turned towards
another shelf. The books stacked there were of equal height and of varying thickness. What they had in common was the date printed on their turquoise spines.
6 February 2023
Unlike the well-thumbed books from the earlier shelf, these spines were uncracked. I stretched out my hand but before my fingertips touched the books, I quickly stepped back.
Mysterious books in a deserted bookshop, the hair-raising silence
. A chill ran through my whole body, as if urging me to leave immediately. I turned and gripped the handle of the sliding door. But before I could do anything, something moved from behind the tree, and a voice spoke.
‘If you open that door—’
‘…’
‘You may leave, but you can never return.’
As if caught in a magical spell, I froze on the spot. The voice sounded polite, somewhat formal. I slowly turned around. I saw a ladder that stretched from the ground to the ceiling. Standing on it was a young woman whose piercing gaze met mine.
OceanofPDF.com

K
The bookshop looked so ancient that I wouldn’t be surprised if it crumbled into rubble at any moment. I imagined my footsteps bringing up a sandstorm of centuries-old dust. In such a shop, one might expect to see a middle-aged shopkeeper with a head of unkempt salt and pepper hair, or an elderly man older than the shop in black arm warmers, or an ajumma in a well-washed cardigan draped loosely on her shoulders as she peered through square reading glasses and asked what kind of book I was looking for. Those kinds of clichés.
I could only stand where I was as I watched the young woman climb down the ladder and dust off the grey specks from her clothes. My breath was lodged in my throat. The woman’s presence seemed to overwhelm the entire space.
‘If you need some time to consider …’
I remained quiet.
‘How about having a cup of coffee with me?’ she asked, arching her thick dark eyebrows.
My gaze trailed over her perfectly creased double eyelids, her dark pupils that seemed to contain the night sea. Even someone like me who wasn’t used to looking into another person’s eyes found it impossible to tear my gaze away. I was falling into an abyss – dizzying, mysterious.
‘Follow me.’
The corners of her lips lifted slightly. I caught sight of a cheek dimple. Her long black hair tied in a low ponytail exuded sophistication. She waved at me to follow, and I noticed the veins on the back of her hand, as well as the intricate silver rings on her slender fingers that gleamed in the light. Pinned to her black jacket was a clear plastic name tag:
Manager K
. Without saying anything else, she turned and walked ahead, passed the rows and rows of books, her ponytail swishing left and right.
Logic told me no, but my body instinctively followed as though she was exerting a magnetic pull on me. Alarm bells rang in my head, but there was no way of turning back.
Tip-tap, tip-tap.
Her footsteps across the wooden flooring were as precise as a metronome. The woman – Manager K – looked about a hundred and seventy centimetres tall. She was
wearing black trousers with a matching jacket and on her feet was a pair of checkered trainers. The soles were pristine, as if she was wearing them for the first time. I couldn’t help but cast a furtive glance at the floor. Was I leaving wet footprints?
Luckily, there wasn’t a trail behind me. But I felt as though the bookshelves were closing in on me like falling dominoes. I struggled to keep up with Manager K’s wide strides. Beyond the tree, the corridor stretched on.
Soon, we reached a crossroads, and she turned right into an empty space. Or rather, it was a wide drawing room where one of the walls had been replaced by a huge panel of glass. Outside, the sun was shining brightly onto a garden. My jaw dropped.
Manager K, who was probably used to seeing such reactions, waved at me to take a seat as she rummaged in a wooden chest of drawers. I sank down onto the comfortable sofa and, in front of me, a fire crackled in the old oil stove.
I basked in the warmth, and my lips, which must’ve been blue from the numbing rain, thawed. I stretched out my hands and let the toasty heat spread through my body, and in that moment, I was acutely aware of how cold I’d been. Feeling the tension slip away, my nerves, which had been taut like a rubber band, relaxed.
‘Coffee’s fine, right?’
‘…’
‘Not like your insomnia will get better if you avoid it, neither will drinking a cup make it any harder to sleep,’ said Manager K.
On a low table, she set down a hand grinder, a bag of beans, a dripper, and coffee filter paper with practised ease. Then she took two white cups from a shelf and positioned them neatly on the table.
My eyes trailed her actions, and while I didn’t answer her, I also didn’t ask how she knew about my insomnia.
Without speaking, she turned the handle of the grinder. When the grounds were ready, she lined the dripper with a piece of filter paper, tipped the grounds over it, and picked up the nickel-silver kettle atop the oil stove. What an odd combination – drip coffee with an old-school kettle. But compared to the situation I was in, that was the least strange of things.
‘I saw the sign outside – Giyeok Bookshop. Is this a bookshop?’
The woman smiled as she tipped the kettle, and the grounds frothed softly as they were met with the gentle stream of hot water. A rich aroma rose, overpowering the smell of paper
and nature. A dark liquid passed through the light brown filter paper, dripping into a transparent beaker.
‘Ah, that’s not giyeok, but gieok – memory.’
‘Huh?’
‘We are the Memory Bookshop.’
She lifted the kettle, and the stream of water thinned to a soft stop. I rolled the woman’s words on my tongue. Memory Bookshop. With just a single stroke of difference, it became a completely different word. With that realization, the vibe of the bookshop felt entirely different from a moment ago. Waves undulated in the calm river of my mind.
‘What do you mean? What is this place?’
‘What do you think?’
Manager K turned the question back on me as she poured the coffee into the cups. I thought about the books I’d flipped through. This was no ordinary bookshop.
‘I saw the books near the door. I’m sure they’re mine. When I was a kid, I didn’t know how to write reviews, so I had the habit of scribbling my thoughts on the last page of the book I was reading. How is it possible that they ended up here? They were thrown away ages ago.’
Manager K nonchalantly sipped her coffee. It was impossible to tear my eyes away from her deep, serious gaze.
‘That’s why we’re called the Memory Bookshop.’
‘…’
‘Kim Jiwon-ssi, this is where all your memories are kept.’
All my memories …?
My thoughts became a tangled mess and my temples throbbed. From the moment I’d met her, the woman had acted as though she knew me intimately, from my name to the insomnia that plagued me. I looked down at my hands on my lap. The scratch from the tree branch was still raw – proof that this place wasn’t a figment of my imagination.
‘Human memories are stored in many ways. They can be infused in the books you’ve read or recorded within the pages of a book, in the form of words or pictures. The earliest memories will be in pictorial form, of course, but so are some of the adult memories. In moments of strong emotion, when something feels impossible to describe within the limits of language, illustrations are sometimes clearer.’
‘… You expect me to believe that?’
‘I think you already do. Deep down, weren’t you hoping for such a moment, something like a miracle …?’
‘…’
‘I thought so.’
There was a mysterious allure in her voice. I’d be lying if I
said a writer like me had never imagined a scenario like this – a chance encounter to return to the past, to meet someone who’d passed away, maybe even visit the heavens or hell. But a bookshop where memories were stored in books? How was that any help?
‘Instead of jumping to conclusions about the
how
, isn’t it more important to think of the
why
?’
It was as if the woman could read my thoughts. ‘What do you mean – why?’
‘The reason you stumbled upon the bookshop.’
She set down the coffee cup and leant back against the sofa.
‘It’s pouring outside, isn’t it?’
A shaft of sunlight hit the side of my body, as if contradicting her words. The warmth swirled gently in the air. Manager K stared out of the window as her lips lifted to a smile. The golden afternoon sun seemed to understand her. But as she uttered her next question, the light flitted away.
‘Have you been thinking about ending your life?’
I spluttered. ‘… What did you just say?’
‘Have you been thinking about jumping in front of the oncoming traffic, falling from a height, swallowing a fistful of sleeping pills and never waking up again—’
‘Stop. Don’t pretend to know me.’ I cut across Manager
K. Letting her finish the sentence was too much to bear. The mask hiding my face was being torn away, and I felt the raw humiliation welling up. Clenching my fists to stop them from trembling, I stood up abruptly. The woman had touched a nerve.
‘Indeed, Jiwon-ssi. You’d know better than me.’
… That wasn’t true. I was just depressed, unable to find my way out of the grief. To think about dying would be a betrayal to Mum.
‘You’re living in denial.’
There was no avoiding the woman’s X-ray gaze.
Living in denial.
The words doused cold water on my indignation, and I slumped back onto the sofa. Perhaps it was time to admit it. This woman was calling out my lies.
‘So what if I am?’
I held my breath, holding my anger at bay. She put down her cup and continued in the same even voice.
‘And in your thoughts, is there any desire to live?’
‘Can’t you speak in plain language? Are you a Grim Reaper who’s come for me?’
Manager K gave a small chuckle. ‘If I were, I wouldn’t have asked about your wish to live.’
Her dimples flashed in amusement. Feeling a stab of
annoyance, the waves in me surged again, climbing into a tsunami.
‘What are you trying to say? And who are you?’
‘You can think of me as a Grim Reaper if you like, even though I’m completely different. If a Grim Reaper guides the spirits of the deceased, then I’m one who extends a hand to those who’re still living.’
Extends a hand to those who’re still living.
The woman’s words were smooth, friendly, but at the same time, sharp. I let them roll in my mind before swallowing hard.
Still living.
Did it mean I was about to die?
I ran a hand down my face and let out a deep sigh. I knew I shouldn’t let the situation make me overly emotional – it would only drain my energy. Since I had nothing to lose, I should at least listen to what the woman had to say. My gaze shifted to her name tag.
‘Should I call you … Manager-nim?’
‘Whatever you’re comfortable with.’
She glanced down at her name tag and straightened in her seat. I asked another question.
‘Are you telling me that I’m going to die soon?’
‘Is that how you interpreted it? Did I sound like I was saying that?’
‘You did. You said you help people who are
still
living.’
‘Hmm …’
She shrugged her shoulders, as if that wasn’t her intended meaning. I lifted the cup to my lips for the first time, and even though it’d been a while, the coffee was still warm.
‘That’s not something for me to decide.’
‘…’
‘You are the one who thinks of ending your life, Jiwon-ssi.’
‘…’
‘And that’s why the bookshop appeared in front of you.’
I couldn’t think of a response, so I took another sip. No one had seen through me the way she did.
‘My turn to ask a question,’ said Manager K.
‘…’
‘Do you think dying will put an end to everything?’
I lowered the cup and looked up. Her expression was neutral, but somehow, I felt the desire to confess my deepest thoughts. Since she wasn’t human, I could be my rawest self in front of her.
‘At least it’s better than living.’
‘What makes you think so?’
‘Life is painful.’
‘Why do you feel that way?’
‘… I think you already know my answer.’
‘I would like to hear directly from you. I’m hoping that we can have a deeper conversation, Jiwon-ssi.’
Her eyes reflected the warmth of the late afternoon sun, and her rose-tinted lips lifted in a gentle curve, piercing my heart. All the words I’d kept buried within me, while forcing a smile and insisting that I was fine, now rose from the back of my throat.
‘Because of guilt.’
‘Guilt?’
‘My mother passed away a few years ago. She’d been sick for a long time, and whenever I think of her … I feel so sorry, as though something hard is lodged in my chest.’
‘But she didn’t die because of you, did she?’
‘… I wasn’t completely innocent. I simply looked on as she was dying. I made her feel so alone. So that’s why I’m being punished. I can’t remember what Mum was like when she was still healthy. Not at all.’
Crying in front of others was something that I’d never allowed myself to do. Not even when Mum died, not during the funeral, not at the crematorium. But tears were streaking down my cheeks now. I felt a painful tingle in my nose and my eyes swelled like heavy rainclouds. My vision blurred and I snapped my eyes shut, as if hoping to close the dam.
‘Do you regret the life you’ve lived?’
Manager K’s voice landed like a gentle pat on my shoulder. Feeling the hardness in my throat, I could only lower my head and nod. For a while, she simply looked at me. I kept my eyes trained on the floor, but I could sense her standing up, heading to the bookshelf in the corner of the room and coming back with something. The tears swirling at the corners of my eyes
fell at my feet as I turned my gaze towards the coffee table. Next to the cups was a rectangular box.
‘If you could travel back in time, which moment would you want to return to?’
‘Huh …’
‘This is the entirety of your time, Jiwon-ssi.’
From the thick paper box, Manager K took out a sandglass the height of two handspans. But instead of sand, the glass held the sky and the sea. At the narrow neck was the horizon. Looking into the glass felt as though I was admiring a beautiful landscape from the edge of a cliff. It was impossible to tell the passing of time within the sandglass, whether it was daytime or the night, whether the weather was clear or cloudy, whether the waves were calm or choppy.
It was like looking into a sacred shrine. The pillars supporting the sandglass gleamed in golden light.
‘This is your life clock.’
‘Life clock?’ I echoed.
‘Inside is your lifespan, the days you’ve lived and the remainder of your time on earth. It probably looks like a beautiful landscape in your eyes, but not to me. I see dark clouds billowing, accompanied by flashes of lightning and cracks of thunder. It looks like a storm is brewing. If it rains
and the sea level rises, blurring the boundary of the horizon, then …’
‘…’
‘Jiwon-ssi, you’ll die.’
‘…’
‘Right now, the sea level isn’t that high … Not yet.’
The woman’s fingers brushed against the curves of the sandglass. I watched the bones of her palms move beneath the thin skin of her hand. Not quite understanding what she meant, I kept quiet. Ignoring my silence, she continued.
‘If you could go back to the past with the time you have left—’
‘… ’
‘Jiwon-ssi, what would you choose?’
A flash of lightning lit up the ocean in her eyes.
The surroundings quietened. I realized that there was nothing in the room that indicated time. On the woman’s wrist was a silver chain bracelet, no watch. There wasn’t a wall clock in sight either.
I stared at the closest thing to it – the sandglass. However, it was impossible to tell the passing of time. Just a moment ago, I swore I saw choppy waves and grey clouds in the woman’s eyes. Was it simply a hallucination born out of my desperation? I shook my head.
‘I don’t know what you’re talking about,’ I said.
‘It’s exactly as I just said. I’m offering you a chance to travel back to the past, in exchange for your future.’
There wasn’t a hint of a joke in her tone. My breath hitched, as though her words were a rope squeezing my throat. Just because a few books looked like the ones I had in my childhood, this woman was expecting me to believe this far-fetched notion? But the problem was that I yearned for it to be true. My heart opened a crack, and her words wedged themselves within.
‘It’s a straightforward proposal. I can offer you three
chances to travel back to the past, and each time, you can stay for three hours. In exchange, I’ll take your remaining time.’
‘As in, you’re asking me to give up the rest of my life in order to return to the past?’
‘Strictly speaking, not
everything
. But of course, that’s also a possibility. What I’ll take is proportionate to how far back in the past you wish to return to.’
To exchange my remaining lifespan for the chance to go back in time … Something that everyone had imagined at least once in their life was now being offered to me. I had no idea if the woman was telling the truth or not, but at least she wasn’t trying hard to sell me the idea. If it was a lie, wouldn’t she be more aggressive in luring me into the trap?
Key moments in my life unspooled in my mind and I thought carefully about what to say next. Manager K didn’t show any signs of impatience.
‘… If I go back in time, something will change, right?’
‘More than you can imagine.’
‘Is it possible to bring back someone from death?’
‘That depends on your choices.’
Her answers were vague, yet to the point. My mouth went dry. If it depended on my choices, did it mean that it
wasn’t an impossible task? I touched the coffee cup to my lips briefly. The warm liquid moistened them, gliding down my throat.
‘But isn’t it an unfair deal? I have no idea how much time I have left, and even if I am to return to the past, how am I supposed to know the exact date and time? Who can remember their life down to the exact details?’
‘This is why the bookshop exists.’
Manager K slowly got up from the sofa and walked past me. Her clean white trainers tapped an unhurried rhythm on the wooden flooring. I turned halfway and watched her as she pulled out a book from the middle of a large bookshelf. She held it out to me. On its turquoise spine was the date: 6 February 2023.
6 February 2023. 6 February …
I tightened my grip on the book. Wasn’t it the same one I’d seen at the entrance moments before meeting the woman? Unlike the books from my childhood days, this one looked brand new, its spine stiff. I couldn’t bear to open it. I looked at the woman, and as if reading my thoughts, she nodded.
I haven’t been sleeping. Maybe I should see the doctor. Urgh, but my eyelids are so heavy I can’t even drive.
Nothing’s done and it’s already eleven. If I’m going to the clinic, I should head there before lunchtime. I say that, but actually I don’t know what I want.
Looking at the handwriting in a faded grey ink, I forgot to breathe. These were my memories from three weeks ago.
The doctor said I’ve been grieving for too long. What a joke. It’s as ridiculous as the research claiming to show that love fades within three years. Who the hell gives them the authority to stamp an expiry date on someone else’s feelings? But I don’t even have the energy to get angry.
‘Everything you need is here. The bookshop stores all your memories. Every single memory leaves a record.’
She was right. No one else could’ve written this. Not even a skilled private investigator could’ve dug out the information. These were my deepest, innermost thoughts. I closed the book and turned to Manager K who was leaning against the table.
‘But how could you use a person’s future as part of the deal? Aren’t you supposed to extend a hand to the living?’
‘That’s how I do it. In any case, haven’t you already given up on life? Then it shouldn’t be any loss to you, right? You’re only alive because you haven’t acted on your desire to die. In that case, give me your remaining time; take it as a different method to the same end.’
Out of nowhere, a chilly draught raised goosebumps along my arms. Again, the woman seemed to have read my mind.
You haven’t acted on your desire to die …
A sense of defeat washed over me. Was she Death coming to knock on my door?
I knew I had to choose my words carefully. I hovered at the boundary between life and death.
‘If the sea level changes, you’ll notice it,’ Manager K said, indicating the life clock on the table.
‘What do you mean …?’
‘And if you manage to change something in your life, I’ll return the time I took from you.’
‘You’ll give me back something you’ve taken? What’s the game you’re playing? Bringing death to those who don’t have the courage to die, at the same time as helping them find their life again? Isn’t that too much, even for a prank!’
I stood up abruptly, my heart pounding as though it’d leap out of my chest at any moment. I glared hard at the woman. She put her blank face closer to mine, and I saw the raging
storm in her eyes, as if she wanted to prove that nothing here was a hallucination.
‘You’ll thank me later.’
‘…’
‘If something changes, it’ll rekindle your desire to live.’
OceanofPDF.com

The Bookshop’s Records
Bookshops were my favourite places. I remembered the one I used to go to as a kid – the stiff spines of the academic workbooks, their glossy covers reflecting the cool fluorescent light, the tiny aisles that were barely big enough for one person to squeeze through, the cramped shelves with no sense of aesthetic.
Unlike big chain bookshops with cold air-conditioning or floor-to-ceiling windows with streaming sunshine, the air was stale, tickling my nose with its permanent smell of dust and paper. Nevertheless, I loved spending time there.
It was probably down to Mum that I ended up being a writer by profession. Each time I wanted to buy a book, she’d drop everything else and bring me to the bookshop. No matter what book I asked for, she’d buy it for me, and as a voracious reader herself, we’d always come out of the bookshop with a bulging paper bag, our newest reads rubbing covers affectionately.
That was perhaps why I felt an instant attraction to this bookshop with its musty, cold air and huge bookshelves. Perhaps Manager K already knew this from the start and was just looking for an appropriate moment to appear in front of me. After all, she could even hold a person’s lifespan in her hands. I let out a low sigh.
‘Since you’ve decided, shall we head over?’
Her voice rang in my ears. But the fact I didn’t try to leave spoke volumes; it was an unspoken agreement to the deal she’d proposed. In silence, I followed.
As I left the room, I turned around for another look. The coffee cups and the kettle that had been letting out steam moments ago looked stone cold; the extinguished flame in the old oil stove bidding me goodbye. I was no longer surprised by the strange sights. After all, in a place that claimed to bend the rules of time, this seemed almost ordinary.
The woman headed in the opposite direction of the reading room. As we passed the crossroads, I saw the majestic tree in the distance. We were separated by a long corridor of bookshelves, but the earthy smell was so vivid that it was as if the tree was right next to me. There wasn’t a single wisp of wind, yet I could hear the leaves rustle.
Manager K came to a halt.
‘Make yourself comfortable.’
The room we’d arrived in resembled one of those reading rooms in the library. In the middle was a long rectangular table with four chairs on each side of its length, and the bookshelves on both sides were in perfect symmetry. I stood at the entrance to the room. There was no floor-to-ceiling glass window like in the previous room, only a reddish-brown door on the inside wall.
Manager K caught me staring at it. But instead of commenting, she pointed at something else.
‘See what we have here. Looks familiar, right? It’s the record player you loved when you were a kid.’
‘Ah.’
I let out a little gasp as I followed her finger. Dad’s favourite record player! I remembered him putting it on frequently when I was a toddler.
‘That one isn’t working anymore, but this one does.’
‘…’
‘The vinyl records are all in the drawers here. Besides sight and smell, the sense of hearing is another powerful vessel of memory. Familiar music will help you recall the memories. Here’s the instruction manual for the bookshop, as well as the bookmark that’ll bring you back to the past.’
The woman’s words flowed like a smooth river. Meanwhile, I felt myself swept up by a strong current as I sat down with the items. What she called a manual was a small and thin booklet. The thin leather bookmark was about the length of a fifteen-centimetre ruler, and its dark blue colour reminded me of the night sea or the sky. The leather was slightly softened with age, and there was a string tied to one end of the bookmark to differentiate the top from the bottom. I gazed up at Manager K who had her arms folded across her chest.
I took my time to place the bookmark at a perfect perpendicular to the table before I finally reached for the booklet. The simple act of flipping over the page was a struggle. By being privy to its contents, it felt as though I was signing an invisible contract. On the first page, printed on paper that was neither perfectly white nor mottled with age, the letters read:
GUIDE TO THE MEMORY BOOKSHOP
&
RULES OF TIME TRAVEL
The font was neat and elegant, neither too small nor big. I ran my fingers over the characters etched with a slight indent and flipped the page.
It was empty.
Licking my dry lips, I turned another page. Sentences filled it, with just the right amount of space between the lines and words.
1. GUIDE TO THE MEMORY BOOKSHOP
The Memory Bookshop stores all the memories of the time traveller.
The time traveller may browse the bookshop to look for the memory that they want to return to.
Slot the bookmark between its pages and hand it to the manager.
2. RULES OF TIME TRAVEL
The time traveller agrees to exchange their time in the future for the chance to travel to the past.
Past and future time are not 1:1, for the further back a person travels, the more they’ll have to give up in exchange.
Time travel is limited to three times per person.
The time traveller can only return to the moment once; it’s impossible to revisit a time that has passed.
Each journey is limited to three hours.
The time traveller exists as themselves in the past.
Any mention of the future from the perspective of the past is strictly prohibited.
If the present life of the time traveller changes as a result, the bookshop will return the time taken from them.
The moment the horizon line disappears in the life clock, the time traveller dies.
Time seemed to stand still once more. Or rather, it was as though the bookshop came alive. Suddenly, darting lights and shadows sharpened into focus.
Manager K, who had been watching me with her arms folded, was now rummaging through the vinyl records in the drawers. But I knew. She was the one breathing life into this place. Time hadn’t stopped. I only noticed it because I was starting to accept the bookshop’s rules.
I watched her pull a record from its paper sleeve. As if sensing my gaze, she blew dust off the vinyl and spoke calmly.
‘It’s not difficult, right? If you have any questions, feel free to ask.’
Immediately, several came to mind.
‘What does it mean that we cannot return to a time that has passed?’
Manager K stilled and turned to me.
‘Once you’ve returned to a particular moment, you can only go further back in time. So, think carefully.’
‘Why is that so?’
‘That’s just how time works. You can’t mix up the timelines. In short, you have to start with a date and time closest to the present.’
With that, she turned her attention back to the record player. Placing the vinyl record on the platter, the black disc spun clockwise as the stylus nestled against the grooves. I couldn’t quite name the piece as music flooded the room, but the melody lived somewhere on the other side of my memory. I settled into my own thoughts.
Which moment should I go back to?
The past regrets unspooled in my mind. All the what-ifs.
I braced myself as I thought back to the coldest winter of my life. The dry air in the hospital ward from the indoor heating. I once read somewhere that when a person is at the end of their life, the last thing to fade away is the sense of hearing. That’s why at the deathbed, it’s important to keep telling someone how much you love them.
But I couldn’t remember what I said to Mum. As she drifted further away from life, did I even tell her I loved her?
The blue sky that early morning, the skinny branches outside the window, my eyes prickling from the lack of sleep, the fatigue beyond description. These were imprinted in my memory, but the rest was a blur.
My brother’s heaving shoulders as he turned his back, sobbing silently, my aunts weeping openly, and Dad who stayed by Mum’s side in silence. Fragments of memories. As for what I was doing, how I was feeling, I couldn’t remember at all.
I put down the booklet and got up. The chair made a rough screech on the wooden floor. Manager K looked at me in silence.
‘What should I do now?’ I asked.
‘Your feet will lead you to the memory.’
It was impossible to estimate how large and deep the bookshop was. The wide spaces seemed infinitely wide, the narrow spaces extremely narrow. Just as I thought I was reaching the end of an aisle, the space stretched beyond the darkness.
I felt the weight of my dilemma once more. Which moment should I return to?
My footsteps were deafening in the silence. Sweeping past the shelves, my eyes landed on a book in front of me. 10 July 2022. Memories from about seven months ago. I stretched out a hand towards the red cover, and with a gentle tug, the slim volume slipped out.
Cracking open the book in the middle, I saw the ink was darker compared to the memory from three weeks ago. I started to read.
My deadline is approaching, and I can’t breathe. I type something only to punch the delete button. Repeat. If I gathered all the words that I struggled to come up with only to erase them, they could probably fill a book. No one’s hounding me, but I can’t help but feel anxious.
No, I’ll take that back. The pressure is always there. I can only survive if I write and get paid; this is my livelihood.
This must be a memory from when I was working on my last serial. Not that I was planning to quit for good, but it was the last one I worked on before I developed a serious case of writer’s block. That was around the time the panic attacks that I’d managed to suppress for the past ten years started to rear up again.
I closed the book, slotted it back on the shelf, and reached for another. 28 July 2022. Still the same summer.
I stop the serial. No matter how hard I try, I simply don’t have words in me anymore. As my anxiety deepens, my insomnia gets worse. I decide to get a brain scan. My claustrophobia makes it impossible to lie down in the machine, so I do it under sedation. My only moments of
rest
escape.
I stared at the dark line striking out the word
rest.
A dark grey ink like the one used in the previous book. This was the first time I’d seen a strikethrough in the records. Could memories be edited? I returned the book and looked
around. Perhaps there were other forms of records here too? However, there were simply too many to be pulled out one by one. I ended up drifting to another shelf that held books with a different-coloured spine.
5 Sept 2022. I’d skipped August and jumped into memories from the previous autumn.
After running all sorts of tests, the doctors can’t find anything wrong with me. It’s as if I’m determined to lie to myself. I know exactly what’s plaguing me, yet I subject myself to all this nonsense … Perhaps it’s time to acknowledge the truth.
I was disappointed to find records in the same old format. There wasn’t anything special about the memory either, so I returned it to the shelf. Suddenly, I felt the full weight of the bookshop. Up till now, I’d been sceptical about it and the woman’s enigmatic presence, but in this moment, it felt like the last of my doubts had been snipped off by a pair of scissors. The random books I was pulling from the shelves were truly my memories.
The realization rammed hard into my chest and knocked the wind out of me. My heart gave a squeeze. Taking
gasping breaths, I staggered towards the shelves on the other side of the aisle. As I urged myself forward, the books flashed past me like the scenery from a car speeding down the expressway.
I only stopped when I reached a dead end. The fear giving chase also halted. Shaking off the intense emotions overpowering me, I pulled out a random book. The date on the light brown spine was 13 June 2019.
My first contract! I can’t believe that my half-hearted submission has been accepted. As soon as I see the email, I jump into the car ready to go home. I should call Mum and tell her the news. She’ll be thrilled. I’ve never acted so much like a baby – it’s embarrassing. Wait. Mum is no longer around. The realization makes my mind turn blank. I grip the steering wheel.
I was unprepared to read the word
Mum
, and tears stung my eyes before I realized what was happening. I bit down hard on my teeth and the ache spread across my jaw. I wanted to bawl. There was no one in sight – not even Manager K – yet I found it impossible to let loose. The desire to be a good, dependable daughter reared up again. I looked up at the ceiling, slowly
closed my eyes, and let the tears recede. Relieved, I opened my eyes again and turned back to the memory.
I should call Mum and tell her the news.
I fixed my gaze on the sentence.
The biggest, deepest wound in my heart was Mum. It’d always been so. Not just her absence, but the entirety of her existence. I tried not to keep her in my thoughts. But that only added to the guilt, and I became stuck in a vicious cycle.
Only now did I realize the obvious truth. That I needed the courage to face what I’d forgotten; to revisit the memories I’d chewed over so many times they’d become distorted.
Your feet will lead you to the memory.
I ruminated over Manager K’s words. As I walked past the identical bookshelves holding books of all colours and sizes, dust flew up behind me with each purposeful step.
I thought back to one specific day. What kind of record would that day’s memories leave? Having ventured deep into the bookshop, I was now walking back in the direction of the reading room, as if the memory I was seeking was calling out to me.
‘… Found it.’
Manager K wasn’t lying. My feet did take me to the memory.
‘Hey … why is it like this?’
My hand paused in mid-air.
28 February 2016. The record I was searching for looked as though someone had deliberately destroyed it.
Fear seized me. The battered, navy-blue cover was a strong reminder of how bruised and broken I had been that day. I took a deep breath and reached for it. At first contact, my fingertips trembled.
‘… ’
I flipped open the book. It wasn’t just the cover that was in bad shape. The paper was mottled with stains and the weight of the thick volume sank uncomfortably in my palms. I flipped over a page that was hanging by a thread. Unlike the neat handwriting I’d seen in earlier books, the writing here was a dark scrawl, as if the characters were scratched with a thick pencil.
28 February 2016.
The day of Mum’s death.
I thought that being prepared would make death more dignified.
‘Jiwon-ah. Listen to me. Um … Your mum is unwell, so she’ll be staying in the hospital for a while,’ Dad says.
‘What happened? Why does she need to be hospitalized?’
‘You’re the older sibling, so I thought you should know about it. It’s nothing that serious. She has nasopharyngeal cancer …’
‘Cancer?’
‘Yeah, but if she gets chemotherapy and radiation therapy, she can make a full recovery. Don’t worry. I’ll take care of everything.’
My university entrance exams had just ended. Before I received my results slip, I got the news that Mum had cancer. Strangely, back then, I didn’t think much about it. The year before, when I was eighteen, Dad had vomited blood. While I worked hard in preparation for the exams, my younger
brother underwent liver donation surgery to save Dad’s life. Both of them made a full recovery. Naturally, I thought Mum’s cancer would go away. The naivety shielded me from fear. However, misfortune wasn’t so easy to shake off.
‘It might be the side effects from radiation therapy … She has early signs of hemiparesis …’
As Dad promised, Mum was cured of cancer. I thought that everything would fall back in place. However, it wasn’t to be. I was twenty-one when Mum became disabled. I witnessed her deterioration. She’d always been confident, wise, and more resilient than anyone else. I watched her slowly crumble and avoid eye contact with us. Things were supposed to be fine. It was supposed to be a brief nightmare. When the darkness passed, and morning arrived, everything would be alright, I lied to myself.
‘She has both speech impairment and dysphagia – swallowing difficulties. Unfortunately, it’s going to be lasting. For the latter, there’s the option of inserting a feeding tube into her stomach and delivering liquid nutrition directly.’
Instead of getting better, the situation only worsened. Mum made a full recovery from the rare nasopharyngeal cancer, but after the radiation therapy, she experienced paralysis in her left arm and leg. And after she lost motor control of her tongue and throat muscles, she had to undergo surgery to place a feeding tube in her stomach. Nevertheless, it was a relief. Mum was still with me. Even if she became weaker, crying more often, her mood swings volatile, she was still by my side, and for that, I was thankful. Surely, if I prayed hard enough, a miracle would come. Every night, I prayed to a god I didn’t even believe in.
Help me. Please save my mum. Please let her be healthy again.
‘It seems like the cancer has returned. We can only be sure after a biopsy, so for now, best to keep it from the patient. Once it’s confirmed …’
Just when I thought things couldn’t get any worse, I was hit with a fresh piece of bad news. How much more desperately did I have to pray for a miracle? How much further did I have to fall to reach the end of the abyss … Had the heavens not heard my prayers?
I was twenty-six. One night, I slumped on the ground in a
deserted alleyway, slammed my fist hard onto the ground and cried. Why did something like that have to happen to me, to my mother? Mum had been nothing but kind in her life.
No way. Not this time. It couldn’t be. If someone had to be punished, let me take it. I’d suffer in her place … Stop … this was too cruel.
‘The cancer has spread through the patient’s body. There’s nothing else we can do. Please take the time to discuss with your family. If you would like to end the life-sustaining treatment, please sign on this form.’
God was dead.
None of my prayers were heard. In accordance with Mum’s wishes when she was still healthy, I’d signed my name on the form to stop all life-sustaining treatments.
Kim Jiwon
. Using the name that Mum had given me, I gave permission for Mum to die.
I was twenty-seven. Death didn’t come suddenly. One day, I stepped calmly into Mum’s ward and, for the next few days, I stayed by her side. I felt myself growing smaller and smaller while Death fed on my fear, getting stronger. From below Mum’s bed, it opened its big mouth to swallow her
up. After preparing for our final farewell for the past eight years, I thought I’d be fine. I should be the strong, dependable daughter right until the end. I forced myself to remain stoic, to endure, but in the end – even whilst the tears didn’t flow – I shattered into pieces inside.
The proof of this lay in the tattered book resting in my hand.
I let out a deep sigh as I flipped a couple more pages. Like a book that had been wet and subsequently dried, the warped pages were spotted with stains. I sat there vacantly, thumbing through the book without knowing what I was looking for, until I reached a page where it no longer looked like it’d been rained on.
‘That’s a sketch memory. I mentioned it just earlier.’
Manager K’s voice rang out as she joined me on the floor.
‘Sketch memory …?’
‘When something can’t be expressed within the limits of language, sometimes memories will be recorded in pictures.’
In her hand was a lantern, or rather, a candle in a thin glass case. She leant comfortably against the nearest bookshelf and stretched out her legs. I gazed down at the sketch illuminated by the flicker of the candle flame. I saw a big window and, sitting in front of it, my brother was sobbing, his back facing us.
‘That day, when your mum passed away, you were looking at your brother from your mother’s perspective.’
‘…’
‘You were trying to understand how your mother felt. Because of that, no words could fill this page.’
I felt a painful lump, as if her words had rolled into a hard ball and lodged in my throat. My breathing quickened. The flame flickered from the candle. Rather than murmuring in agreement, I felt a question burst out of me.
‘Why is this book so … tattered?’
Manager K set the candle down to her right before turning around and slowly lifting the book out of my hands.
‘These are the memories you revisit the most often, the same way that books you re-read often have frayed edges. That shows how much you’ve been coming back to this memory.’
‘Then what about this pool of ink?’
‘With time, memories may be forgotten, polluted, distorted. The memories you’ve forgotten are in darker ink, while the ones that are fresh in your mind leave a lighter record. It looks like you want to forget the memories from that day. But the more you try to forget, the more you’ll revisit them. And each time, your memories change a little.
In the process, the ink may spread or pool together – which is what you’re seeing now.’
Memories change with time.
I … I changed that day’s memories by myself
.
Manager K put her hands together to make a round circle.
‘Memories are like a snowball. The more you roll them over in your mind, the bigger they get, and then sometimes they become too much to handle.’
‘…’
‘Same with guilt.’
She mimicked the action of pushing the imaginary snowball towards my chest. I felt the odd sensation of having swallowed something bigger than I could handle. I rubbed my skin, and feeling the chill, I trembled.
‘What was written here in the first place?’ Manager K mused.
‘…’
‘And what did you hope to change it to?’
‘…’
‘In the end, what will remain?’
To all her questions, I remained silent. As if she’d expected it, she answered them one by one.
‘I love you.’
‘…’
‘Thank you.’
‘…’
‘And—’
She pushed the book back into my hands and looked at me expectantly, as if I should be the one to say it. I flipped to the last page and read out the faint words.
‘I’m really sorry, Mum.’
Among all the bookshelves, there was one dense with regret. The books fraying with guilt were dated from the time Mum fell seriously ill, and the shelves bent precariously under their weight. I took some of the most battered ones and returned to the reading room. For a long time, I stared at the stack of books on the table.
Manager K said she’d be back with something and disappeared. Left alone, I sat at the table, mulling over the starting point of all the misfortune. Where had the flames that engulfed my life started? What did I have to change so that the spark of the fire wouldn’t ignite in the first place? While I seemed clueless, deep down, I knew. There was only one thing I wanted.
Mum. I wanted Mum to be healthy again, to stay by my side. I wanted a life with Mum around.
Grasping the bookmark, I felt the weight of a deep dilemma. Three chances might seem generous at first, but they didn’t feel enough to relieve my longing. There was also the rule that I could only go back further in time, with each visit to the past. This meant that if I made a misjudgement,
I’d be stuck with fewer options later. I had to choose carefully. Closing my eyes, I focused on recalling the faded memories.
First was the disease that ravaged Mum. I couldn’t stop the disease from happening, so the next best thing was to make sure it was discovered from the onset so that she could receive early treatment. By the time her cancer was discovered, it was spreading quickly, so they had to use a higher dosage in radiation therapy and perhaps because of that, she suffered from a multitude of side effects. Caught up in the false hope that things were going to get better, Mum and the entire family were caught off-guard, and wilted away at the never-ending slew of bad news.
I picked up a frayed cover from the stack on the bookshelf. 23 November 2010.
Late at night, during the drive back to my dorm, Dad tells me that Mum has cancer. Cancer. It feels so unfamiliar, foreign. No one around me has cancer. Maybe because of that, it feels like an illness that’s no more serious than the flu. Dad says things will be fine.
The first crack in my life. When Dad said everything would be fine, I had believed him. That was the bubble I
grew up in. Only later did I realize that he had lied. Even though I was almost in my twenties, old enough to have an identity card, I was still the precious daughter that Dad had to protect. It was only several years later, when Mum started experiencing the side effects of her treatment, that I found out the truth.
‘If only your mum had listened to me about getting it checked at the hospital, things wouldn’t have turned out this way,’ Aunt says.
‘I thought they discovered her cancer early?’ I ask.
‘You remember that time your father had vomited blood and your mum was basically shuttling between the hospital and home? Once, she fainted in the hospital lobby. I told her not to ignore it and get a check-up …’ Aunt lets out a heavy sigh.
14 March 2012. Mum was hospitalized for her hemiparesis treatment, and I was in the hospital cafeteria with Aunt. I touched the grooves of the letters on the page as I revisit our conversation. Mum didn’t fall ill when I was nineteen. She must’ve been unwell for at least a year at that point.
I bit my lip as I did the mental calculations. If that was
the first time Mum had collapsed, things must’ve been quite serious by then. It wasn’t enough to get a check-up after such symptoms had shown up. In that case, should I return to an earlier moment, and if so, when, and what should I do?
Her condition must’ve worsened under the stress of Dad’s illness and the accumulated tiredness. In that case, what about the spring when I turned eighteen …
I got up abruptly. My mind cleared and suddenly, the music from the vinyl record sharpened in my ears. As if being chased by the fast melody of the piano piece, I sprinted towards the shelves, even though I had no idea where to start looking. All I knew was that I wanted to return to February 2009, ahead of the new semester.
How long had it been since I ran until my breath hitched? My lungs expanded with the anticipation. Like a racehorse, I ran down the corridor of bookshelves with a singular goal in mind when, suddenly, my feet stopped even before my brain could process what was happening. I turned to my left. Hanging on the wall nearby was a landscape painting of spring flowers. I walked down the narrow aisle enveloped by shelves on both sides. Right in front of the painting lay the memory I was looking for. 2 February 2009.
Why 2 February of all dates? I wondered as I picked up the book, the memory drawing me towards it. I flipped the book open and, immediately, I was reliving a scene from the past.
Holidays are coming to an end. What’s worse than being a high school senior is being a sophomore, or so they say. Urgh. School sucks. I haven’t been enjoying the break at all. Monday’s my only rest day. From Tuesdays to Saturdays, all I do is hole up in the cram school. It’s supposed to be the time I have fun before the stress of exams hits, but even on rest days, all I manage to do is close the door, lie on the bed and stare at the ceiling.
There was nothing special about the memory. Why did it call out to me? I wondered as I flipped the page. The ink was a lot darker on the page, which means I must’ve forgotten this piece of memory.
I hear loud sounds outside the door. Mum, who is watching TV in the living room, suddenly exclaims about how she’s forgotten about a 3 p.m. doctor’s
appointment. I pick up my phone that’s next to the pillow. 7:40 p.m. The clinic would’ve closed for the day by now. Well, she can just make another appointment. It’s not the first time she’s forgotten something anyway. What’s the fuss? The day passes like any other.
… This must be why.
That winter, Mum had been complaining about a ringing in her ears. But as usual, she kept procrastinating about getting it checked. It was only when the new year arrived that she finally made an appointment at the neighbourhood ENT clinic. Back then, I couldn’t understand her. She clearly felt the discomfort and pain, so why didn’t she see the doctor earlier? But it never occurred to me to drag her to the clinic. Or perhaps I was just hiding behind the excuse of a packed schedule at the cram school. At home, I kept my door closed and barely spoke. I was an inattentive daughter. A lousy daughter.
‘This is it. I’ll go back to this moment.’
Given Mum forgot about the 3 p.m. appointment, I’d remember it on her behalf. I’d return to that day, step out of my bedroom, hold her hand, and take her to the clinic. A sense
of relief washed over me, as if I’d finally found a solution for a problem that I thought I’d never be able to solve. Holding the book to my chest, I walked back to the reading room. It felt as though I’d run a good distance trying to find the memory, but the walk back took barely any time at all. I inhaled deeply as I placed the book on the table.
‘Looks like you found the first moment. You must be thirsty? Here, have some water.’
Manager K had already returned to the room, and as though reading my mind again, she’d made sure a glass of water was ready for me. All was quiet, no sound was coming from the record player, and I watched as she slipped the vinyl back in its sleeve with practised ease.
It must be time.
‘Put on the wristwatch. It’s in the box next to the bookmark. It’ll tell the time. You’ve committed all the rules to memory, right? You have three chances to return to the past. When you find the moment that you wish to revisit—’
Manager K’s voice was nonchalant, as if we were discussing a lunch menu. I emptied the glass, sat down, and completed her sentence.
‘—put the bookmark between the pages and hand the book over to the manager.’
I still sounded breathless. She turned and gave me a satisfied nod. In her eyes, the grey clouds swirled.
OceanofPDF.com

The First Trip
‘Turn the crown of the watch until you reach the desired time of return, and make sure to differentiate between a.m. and p.m. When you’re ready, send me a signal and I’ll open the door. Stepping through will take you back to that exact moment in the past.’
Without hesitation, I slotted the bookmark into the book, making sure an inch of the leather peeked out from the pages. Inside the box was a round analogue watch with a silver bezel and leather strap of the same colour as the bookmark. Inscribed on the white dial were Arabic numerals and there was a small window that could be switched between a.m. and p.m. I was hit with a sense of déjà vu, as if I’d seen the watch before. Then I realized.
Excuse me, is there anyone here? Hey!
A voice barged into my memories. The man in the waiting room at the clinic …
Help! Someone’s dying …
The man, who had appeared as if from a separate dimension, howling desperately. Wasn’t this the very same watch that he’d worn on his wrist? That he’d been frantically checking?
Could it be that he was also …
I glanced at Manager K with a questioning look. Her eyebrow twitched and she gave me a faint smile. However, she didn’t say anything.
I tried to calm my pounding heart as I put on the watch. Like a custom-made piece, it was a perfect fit; the buckle tongue slipped with ease into the hole. Watches could feel clumsy or heavy at times, but not this one. I rotated my wrist, shook it, but the watch stayed in position. I gazed down at the dial. The time indicated was midnight. Hearing Manager K’s footsteps behind me, I broke out of my reverie. I walked to the door, and handed over the book after double-checking that the bookmark was slotted between the right pages.
2 February 2009.
I gently pulled out the crown of the watch and rotated it until it switched to p.m. and the hour hand was at 2, with the second hand pointing at 6.
2:30 p.m.
Click.
As I pushed in the crown, the gears in the watch aligned and time started ticking. I turned towards Manager K. Taking it as a signal, she pushed down the door handle and, for the first time, I could hear emotion in her voice.
‘Are you ready? Have a safe journey.’
She pulled open the door and I felt myself sucked into gentle waves. I closed my eyes. Time seemed to turn in the other direction and with a splash, like paint dissolving in water, I melted into the past.
It was dark.
With my eyes closed, the world was pitch black. I wiggled my fingers, one at a time. With my heart still pounding in my ears, I slowly opened my eyes. White light flooded my vision, and the blurry images sharpened into focus. Ah, I could see again. I recognized my surroundings. The high ceiling. The dust-covered piano. The tall bookshelf, and next to it, a writing desk with an oakwood chair. The blue lights from the square stereo that filled my nights with music. The place I thought I’d never return to again – my bedroom.
I sat up on my bed. The sudden movement brought a
wave of dizziness. I slowly moved to the edge of the bed and looked around once more. Everything, including the scent, was familiar. I was truly back.
My heart thumping wildly, I padded across the room and caught my reflection in the fingerprint-stained mirror. Tears welled up. I was looking at a naïve, happy-go-lucky teenager. Everything Manager K said was true. I was eighteen again.
Wiping away the tears with the back of my hand, I stood in front of my bedroom door. Outside the door,
Mum .
. . My breathing quickened at the thought that I’d be seeing my mother again; someone who, over the years, I’d come to associate with sorrow and guilt. My hands were clammy. I grabbed the handle, or rather, I clung onto it, feeling the pins and needles in my fingertips. I took deep breaths and with each purposeful exhale, the prickly sensations calmed. Steadying myself, I pushed down the handle and opened the door.
‘… Ah.’
I let out a soft gasp. Even after closing and opening my eyes several times, I was still here. This wasn’t a dream. I was back in the past. The master bedroom in front of me, the spacious living room, the kitchen exactly how I remembered it.
‘M-Mum …?’
I called out tentatively like a baby learning to talk for the
first time. Sometimes I still talked about Mum with people who remembered her, but using the word within a sentence and calling her name held a different weight. I turned towards the empty living room and called out once more.
‘Mum. Mum? Mum, where are you!’
Strange. I couldn’t sense any other presence in the apartment. The watch on my wrist ticked loudly. Three precious minutes of my three hours were gone.
No one answered. I was sure I had come back to the right place, the right time, but why …
‘Mum!!’
I crossed the living room in quick strides and opened the toilet door. No one. I checked my brother’s room. Empty. Could it be that she’d gone out? Was it mentioned in a previous page of the memory records that I’d missed?
I ran to the front door and yanked it open. Outside were three neatly parked bicycles and a pile of dusty junk that greeted me with a musty smell. As I’d returned to a distant memory, it was impossible to know where Mum had gone just by looking at the slippers at the door. I squatted down and lowered my head in my hands. Was it a hopeless wish to meet a loved one I’d lost? Then what was the point of coming here …?
‘Aigoo. Kim Jiwon! Stop yelling. My ears are going to be worn out!’
I felt a presence behind me. The person I’d been pining for every night. A voice – no, a miracle – was calling out to me. My legs gave way, and I slumped on my side.
‘Why are you on the floor?’ the voice teased. Feeling completely overcome, I curled up and buried my face into the hard maru flooring, tears welling up once again. The voice that I’d missed so dearly. Side effects from Mum’s radiation therapy had gradually robbed her of speech, making it hard for her to pronounce words, or swallow food, and she could only type on her phone to express herself. But right now, she was calling my name properly, a tinkle of a laugh colouring her voice. I couldn’t look up. Manager K’s warning rang in my mind.
If you behave too differently from how you were back then, you might waste precious time trying to make excuses for yourself. You only have three hours. Time waits for no one. Keep that in mind.
I shouldn’t cry. I’d never once cried in front of others, not even my parents. It’d be hard to explain if I burst into tears for no reason. I quickly wiped away the tears and snot on my sleeve. No matter what happened, I must remain calm.
‘Mum … where did you go?’
I got up. To hide my flushed face, I slowly turned around
and, luckily, Mum’s gaze was on the mirror above the shoe cabinet. She didn’t seem to have noticed my strange behaviour.
‘I was in the bedroom toilet. It’s been four days, but my constipation isn’t getting better. Maybe I should get some meds.’
As Mum swiped back her fringe, I saw the speckles of grey. When was the last time she dyed her hair? I remembered her musing that she’d taken after Grandma in having premature white hair. Of all things to inherit, it had to be this, she’d grumbled. At that thought, I cracked a smile. Having lived through the everyday hell of her illness, the fact the only things Mum was worried about right now were not shitting for four days and having white hair was unbelievable. I let out a sound between a snort and a laugh.
I still didn’t have the confidence to face her, so I stood behind her and reached for a back hug instead. She was a good eight centimetres shorter than me, so my forehead pressed down on her small shoulders. From my watch, I heard the seconds tick.
I can do this. I can save her. She can be healthy again.
Steeling my resolve, I squeezed her lightly.
‘Mum, let’s go see the doctor.’
The waiting room at the clinic was full. The entire building was a medical centre with specialized clinics on each floor, but the ENT clinic was particularly crowded. The person who’d first discovered Mum’s cancer and her subsequent relapse was the director here.
I watched the flashing screen anxiously, my legs shaking as the list of patients gradually dwindled. Mum gave my thighs a light slap. ‘Stop jiggling. It’s distracting,’ she murmured.
‘…’
‘How did you remember that I have an appointment today? It completely slipped my mind.’
‘Er? Oh. You told me the other day. You said you were probably going to forget about it and told me to help you remember.’
‘Did I? Terrible, how am I already getting so forgetful? What if I become like your grandma and get Alzheimer’s—’
‘Mum! Don’t say that!’
‘Aigoo, don’t shout in my ears! Everyone’s staring. I’m just saying … One can’t ignore family medical history.’
‘… There’s also a saying that words sow seeds.’
At my sharp voice, Mum smacked my back, and I turned away awkwardly. Mum stared at me, as if finding it strange that I was being unusually insistent, but I refused to meet her eye.
My heart was close to exploding. As we braved the chilly winter winds on the way to the clinic, I couldn’t help but steal glances at her. My hands, itching to hold hers, fidgeted in the pockets of my coat. Why did I always use the excuse of being ticklish and embarrassed to keep a distance from her when we went out together? Why was it that I always kept my bedroom door shut? If only I had been less taciturn and more affectionate in the past, it wouldn’t have been so difficult to hold her hand once more …
I only started linking arms with Mum, holding her hands, after she got hemiparesis. It wasn’t just because I chose to, but more because she needed support to walk, and she could no longer shower herself.
I tore my gaze from the entrance and glanced at Mum’s profile. The short bob that she tucked behind her ears looked good on her, her oval-shaped face was pretty, and her great sense of fashion stood out among the other mothers. I didn’t have her eyes, but I had her nose. She used to tease me, saying I should be thankful that I’d inherited her fair skin. Right enough, I glowed like fluorescent light even at night, and my
skin was soft and smooth like hers. My gaze trailed past her lips and landed on her hands that she tucked neatly on her lap. Veins were visible through her pale skin and her hands were fuller than I’d remembered them to be; hands that didn’t know hardship. My eyes landed on her trainers and her neatly tied laces.
Shoelaces …
I gave a little start. After she got hemiparesis, she could no longer wear shoes with laces. At size 225, her small feet were in keeping with her tiny frame, but because it was a size in between kids’ and adults’ footwear, whenever she found a pair that was a good fit, she’d stick to the same brand and design for a long time. To see her wearing trainers and a warm grey jacket instead of a patient’s gown was unfamiliar.
After a long hesitation, I put my hand over hers.
In the few seconds that followed, as two hands became one, a myriad of thoughts flitted through my mind.
‘Mum, don’t you think my hands are a little cold? The heating here is terrible, I’m freezing.’
Afraid that she might ask why I was holding her hand out of the blue, I fumbled with an excuse but regretted it immediately. However, she didn’t show the slightest surprise as she tenderly wrapped her hands around mine.
‘See, I told you to stop having iced drinks. Cold stuff is no good for a woman’s body.’
Her affectionate nagging. The warm touch of her hands gently rubbing mine. It was so easy. We could’ve spent more time bonding together. Why didn’t I do it back then? Why was I such a fool to believe that we’d have forever ahead of us?
My eyes suddenly started to sting. ‘Are you okay?’ Mum asked. I nodded vigorously.
‘Lee Yeonhee-nim.’
Luckily, the wait wasn’t that long. 3:25 p.m. I got up from the sofa, leaving a deep mark in the seat, and hurried Mum down the corridor towards the consulting room.
‘You’re coming with me?’ Mum asked, surprised.
‘Yeah. Can’t I?’
‘Not that you can’t, but you usually don’t.’
Her rounded eyes fixed on mine. She was right. The past me would’ve stayed in the waiting room playing games on my phone.
‘Well … It’s too boring here.’
‘Alright, come in then.’
As I followed her through the doors of the consulting room, I desperately offered a prayer to a god I swore I wouldn’t
believe in anymore.
Please, may my choice be the right one. Let the cancer be discovered.
What irony. To prevent her death, here I was, praying hard for a cancer diagnosis. I licked my cracked lips.
‘Lee Yeonhee-nim, what brings you here today?’
Mum described her symptoms in detail to the doctor. As though my ears were blocked, I could only hear my own desperate prayers, the pounding of my heart that reverberated from my chest to my eardrums, overpowering my body and my mind.
‘I’ve been noticing fluid coming out of my ears and I keep hearing a ringing sound.’
Mum’s nose and ears had been sensitive since she was young. That was why she hated getting into the swimming pool, but in middle school, when both my younger brother and I got into water-skiing, she learnt to swim so that she could join us in the water. Even then, she kept reminding us how much she hated the experience, so why did we keep persuading her, telling her that it’d be less scary the more she tried?
I clenched my teeth as I looked at the doctor probing her ears and nostrils with painful-looking instruments.
In my ears was a low, indistinct buzz that I usually got
when my ears were blocked on a flight. I could make out the noises of the children in the waiting room, the hum of the oxygen therapy next door, the doctor’s indistinct grunt as he put down the stainless-steel instruments, the rapid clicks of the computer mouse and the loud typing.
The seconds dragged on as the white screen filled with medical jargon that, to my untrained eyes, looked nothing more than a string of letters. I scratched my head. What if the doctor said there were no abnormal findings? We needed a referral letter so that I could convince Mum to visit a hospital. If the doctor said there wasn’t anything to worry about, no way would Mum agree to get a detailed check-up out of the blue … I cast an anxious glance at my watch. 3:45 p.m. I had less than two hours left.
‘Lee Yeonhee-nim.’
In that moment, as the doctor called Mum’s name, I recognized the tone.
‘It’d be good to run some tests at a bigger hospital.’
‘Why? Is there a problem?’
‘There’s a lump in your nasopharynx, and we can only be sure what it is after you have a biopsy. I’ll write you a referral letter. Please get an appointment at the earliest.’
The doctor spoke kindly, much more so than other doctors
I’d met in previous years. It hit me how unbelievable it all was, that I’d travelled back sixteen years in time, and Mum’s cancer had still taken root in her body. At that thought, something sour welled up at the back of my throat. I thought about how I’d prayed they’d discover some abnormality today. I thought I’d be happy to get a referral letter but … now I wasn’t so sure.
On the way home, Mum and I were silent. If we were in the
real
past, the eighteen-year-old me would be chattering on, asking questions like, ‘Mum, when are you going to make the appointment?’, ‘When the doctor says a bigger hospital, does he mean a university hospital?’, ‘Why do you need a biopsy?’ But my thirty-two-year-old self already knew – too well – what the doctor was talking about.
‘…’
‘…’
As we reached the overhead bridge, Mum kept an arm’s distance from me. This wasn’t unusual, but having lived through the intervening years since her diagnosis – when I’d supported her as she walked, told her stories, helped her in the shower – the distance now felt more awkward. I stole glances at her profile, opening and closing my mouth like a goldfish as I tried to break the silence.
What was on Mum’s mind right now? Thinking back, I had no idea how Mum had received her diagnosis, how the doctor had broken the news to her like handing out a death sentence in the cold, sterile room. Dad only mentioned that
the neighbourhood clinic detected some abnormalities and suggested that she run some tests at a bigger hospital. How could I have been so indifferent back then? Why didn’t I want to know more, why didn’t I ask?
Everything was my fault. If only I had been a better daughter. If only I had been more attentive. If only …
The thoughts chased each other, turning circles in my head until my temples throbbed. But then I shook myself. I didn’t give up the rest of my life to return to the past and get caught in a never-ending cycle of guilt and regret. I thought about what Manager K told me. Guilt was like a snowball. The more you rolled, the bigger it became and the harder it was to handle. It was time to put aside my despair and focus on what I could do – what I
had
to do.
‘I’ll look up the phone number of the hospital later.’
‘You?’
‘Yeah.’
Mum laughed. ‘Do you even know what hospital they’re talking about?’
‘The tertiary hospital. Of course, I know.’
‘How do you know?’
‘I’ve watched enough medical dramas. And there’s nothing that isn’t on the internet these days. Mum, it’s so
cold today. We should’ve taken a taxi. What’s for dinner tonight?’
I glanced at my watch. It was already 4:15 p.m. Hospitals and clinics were such mysterious places that sucked people dry of time and energy. I only had an hour and fifteen minutes left here. To lift Mum’s spirits, I scooted close to her and kept my voice bright. Just by closing the gap between us, I could feel her warmth enveloping me.
Was it not possible to stay here forever? Looking at the second hand moving across the watch face steadily, knowing that the only thing I could do was help Mum make the appointment, I was filled with hopelessness. I could only make sure that the cancer was detected in the early stages and that Mum didn’t procrastinate about visiting the hospital. But it pained me to think about her all alone in the doctor’s room, having her world cleaved apart by the diagnosis. I made a mental note to call Dad. Like how Mum had accompanied Dad to the hospital when he was unwell, I would ask him to do the same for her.
‘Mum.’
‘Yeah?’
We were back at the apartment now, waiting for the lift. I knew Mum was just pretending to be calm; both her hands
were stuck deep in her coat’s pockets, and I could hear paper rustling. I moved closer to Mum and slipped my hand into her pocket. Using the cold weather as an excuse, I wrapped my hand around the fist that was crushing the referral letter in her pocket.
‘It’s okay. Everything’s going to be fine. Don’t worry.’
Back in my room, after making an appointment at the hospital for the earliest slot, I clumsily opened my flip phone to call Dad.
I was about to dial when I hesitated.
A memory returned to me: Dad calling me on that unusually dark autumn night to deliver the news about the diagnosis. Back then, had he felt the same way as I did now? My finger hovered over the call button. How should I even begin? Our roles were being reversed. How should I convey the bad news to Dad?
When he first told me about Mum’s illness, I was in the car. I remember the blue lights of the dashboard refracted in the rain and Dad trying to keep his voice calm on the other end of the line. Perhaps Dad wasn’t okay at all. Perhaps my memories were
simply distorted to fit the idea of what I thought should have happened. But Dad wasn’t stoic. Neither was he truly calm.
Using the excuse that I was just a teenager back then, I let Dad shoulder everything on his own. Just because he was an adult, it didn’t mean that he was strong all the time. It occurred to me that it was perhaps even scarier for him, precisely because he was an adult.
Now it was my turn to be strong. I pressed the call button and, as the connecting tone filtered through the speaker, I paced the bedroom. Time was ticking away on my wrist, yet the dial tone was dragging each second out. My heart was thumping. Outside the closed door, I could hear Mum in the kitchen preparing dinner. If only I could taste her home cooking once more …
I looked at the watch. 4:43 p.m. I had only until 5:30 p.m. I wouldn’t be able to stay for dinner.
‘Hello, Dad? It’s me…’
Instead of using an electric rice cooker, Mum preferred a pressure cooker. The click of the lid clamping down filtered through the gap of my bedroom door. At that same moment, Dad’s voice flowed through the phone pressed against my right cheek. Like an actress reciting her lines, I delivered the sentences I’d been practising in my head. For a while, there was only silence.
‘I’ll handle this. Don’t worry,’ Dad said.
I used to hate how Dad treated me and my brother like children. I’d lost track of how many times we’d raised our voices at each other, hurt each other, because of this. But it hit me now how young I had been back then, how I
was
just a child in Dad’s protection. Him reassuring me that he’d handle it and telling me not to worry too much soothed me like a sedative.
‘Alright, Dad. Please make sure to accompany Mum to the hospital.’
After ending the call, I came out of my bedroom and my eyes landed on the family photo in the living room. It was taken during our trip to Jeju Island when I was in elementary school. When my brother and I grew up, we complained that the photo was too dated and wanted to take a new one. However, Dad, who was facing some issues at work, had to live separately from us for a while, so we decided that we’d take a new photo once he came back. But I – no, we – never fulfilled the promise. In the end, the 1997 photo became our last family photo.
‘Mum, what are you doing?’
I went into the kitchen and rested my chin on her shoulder. Her hands remained busy as she answered me absentmindedly.
‘Cooking dinner, what else?’
Perhaps I took after Mum in personality, too.
‘Why?’ she asked. ‘Is there something you want to eat?’
And the same gentle affection beneath our brusqueness.
‘I’m good with anything. As long as you made it.’
‘Huh. You haven’t been yourself the entire day.’
‘Mum, you know …’
‘Know what?’
‘Don’t you think our family photo is too dated?’
‘What do you mean?’
‘It’s been over ten years. We look so different now.’
‘Really? Doesn’t seem that different to me.’
‘Still … We should take a new one.’
‘Yeah, since both you and Jihoon are in high school, I guess we could.’
Chug-chug-chug.
The pressure cooker on the stove whistled, puffing out clouds filled with the fragrant aroma of freshly cooked rice. I wrapped my arms around Mum’s waist. The fragrance of rice and Mum’s familiar smell swirled at the tip of my nose. The smell that was long ago erased from my memories.
I thought about the Memory Bookshop.
When I first discovered that the books were a record of my memories, I thought there couldn’t be a more perfect system.
But now I knew better. Books couldn’t retain the scent of
the people we loved, nor record touch, nor temperature. I buried my face in Mum’s neck and inhaled deeply. Without looking at the watch, I knew it was time to go.
‘Mum?’
‘Are you bored? Why do you keep calling me?’
I rolled the syllable in my mouth. Mum. Mum. Mum.
If you behave too differently from how you were back then, you might waste precious time trying to make excuses for yourself. You only have three hours. Time waits for no one. Keep that in mind.
My time here was coming to an end. So, it shouldn’t matter right? Even if I said something that was out of character, even if I said something that might lead to more questions …
I’d leave the task of finding an excuse to my eighteen-year-old self.
You wouldn’t remember that I borrowed three hours from you
, I thought to myself.
Let me follow my heart this time, and please help me out if she looks at you oddly.
‘Mum?’
‘Aigoo. Yes, my dear child?’
Losing patience, Mum wriggled out of my embrace and turned to look at me. As I felt myself disappear, I said it.
‘Mum, I love you very much.’
OceanofPDF.com

The Decline
The return to the present took no time. I closed my eyes, whirling through time and space, and the moment I opened them again, I was back in the chair in the reading room of the Memory Bookshop with books strewn in front of me. As if everything was a dream.
As the last bit of warmth dissipated from my fingertips, I snapped back to reality. I looked around. Manager K, who always appeared at the perfect moment, was nowhere in sight. The room echoed with goosebump-raising silence. Even the record that’d played in the background had stopped. I sat in a daze, as if knocked out by a strong dose of medicine. Mum – with her rosy complexion, the voice that I missed so much, her petite frame, her warmth – was still imprinted in my mind. But I could no longer touch her. Here, right now, I was completely alone.
What next? It took me a long while to even think about
a
next
. After all, in returning to the past, I’d given up a part of my future. It took me a moment to remember there was something I wanted to change. I jolted out of my seat as quickly as someone who’d just realized they’d left the stove on. I quickly rummaged through the mess of books on the table. Which book would tell me what I yearned to know? As my thoughts clicked into place, and my eyes darted from book to book, I found a sense of purpose again.
There’d be no better evidence than
that day
. I picked up the book tattered with my regrets and guilt. 28 February 2016 – Mum’s death anniversary. Or what had been her death anniversary, before my trip back to the past.
I stared at the cover. It was still as battered. However, that didn’t mean that the content would remain the same. I had gone back and done my best to pave the way for a miracle. Surely it was enough to change the future, the present, and the past. I quickly flipped the book open.
‘…’
On the crumpled pages that looked like they’d been rained on and dried again, the same picture remained. My brother Jihoo’s back view in the hospital …
What was going on? Nothing had changed. My time-
travelling hadn’t made any difference. A dull pain throbbed in the pit of my stomach, as if someone had punched me hard. Didn’t Manager K say that things could change? That it was possible to make a difference?
‘Something must’ve gone wrong … I don’t believe this.’
What washed over me wasn’t disappointment, but fear. ‘No, no, this can’t be true,’ I murmured under my breath as if casting a spell. And, still, the content of the book remained unchanged as it rested in my hands.
There must be a new book elsewhere, one that recorded the updated memories. At that thought, strength returned to my legs and I quickly got up.
Even though the bookshop wasn’t shaped like a maze, the space seemed limitless. I ventured deeper into the bookshop in search of Manager K who was still nowhere to be seen. Like a small boat swept up by the current, I was seized by a boundless fear, forced to keep going in an aimless direction. I lost track of where I was. Several times, I was simply pacing the same aisle.
Perhaps the bookshop grew impatient in watching all this unfold, for it opened a path and led me to Manager K. I emerged onto a vastly different space. Unlike the neatly arranged bookshelves that had formed the landscape of the
bookshop so far, I was surrounded by what looked like a mass grave of books piled on top of one another.
‘Oh, you’re here? Give me a minute.’
From somewhere among the mess of books, the woman’s voice filtered through. I ran my gaze slowly along the shelves, which extended all the way to the arched ceilings. Seeing books of different sizes cramped tight together, I felt like I was looking at a reflection of my tangled feelings. But compared to the pristine-looking shelves, I was oddly more at ease here, as though comforted that I wasn’t alone in being a complete mess.
Books of varying sizes and thickness were stacked high like towers, humming with the stories held within. I weaved through them, trying to follow where Manager K’s voice had come from. Ahead was a spiral staircase that seemed to lead to nowhere. I gulped down the tears that threatened to burst out from me and waited for her to appear.
‘Usually, I’d leave this place as it is, but I thought you might need something from here so I’m trying to tidy up. It’s just taking quite a while. As you can see, there’s a huge pile of books. How was your first trip? Did you manage to do what you wanted?’
From behind the towers of books, Manager K emerged, her black jacket covered with a coating of grey dust.
‘Something must have gone wrong …’
‘What do you mean,
gone wrong
?’
‘Look … Nothing has changed. Nothing at all.’
I flailed my arms, and the memory records of Mum’s death anniversary fell with a thud on the ground.
‘I mean … this must be the old book, right? What I changed, that must be recorded somewhere else, right? Yeah, this doesn’t make sense. There must be another book elsewhere … Where is it? Show me. Help me find the new memories. I want to know what has changed. If I have to find it myself, show me. Tell me how to find it.’
An incoherent string of words tumbled out of my mouth. I had no idea what I was saying, but Manager K’s unchanging expression was enough to send a chill through me.
‘There’s no other book.’
‘…’
‘There’s nothing wrong with this record. Your mother passed away that day.’
Why …? Why didn’t anything change? I can’t, no, I won’t understand. I refuse to.
‘You told me it was possible … You said if I could change the past, I could even save someone from death … Was that all a lie? I did my best, but now you’re telling me that … Did
I really go back to the past? All I want is to see Mum again … to have her by my side … but the price I paid after rekindling that flame of hope is … this?’
The tears fell. Despair and a deep sense of helplessness welled up from the back of my throat and held me in a chokehold. I was shaking. I might not have fully trusted the mysterious manager, but the moment I returned to the past and saw Mum alive again, everything had felt so real that I had to believe it. For the first time in a long while, I felt hope. The hope of miracles. But it turned out to be a mirage. The woman’s face, her words, everything about her seemed to be mocking me. I’d never forgive her.
‘Let me clarify a couple of things—’
‘…’
‘I’ve never asked you to change the past. Neither did I insist nor force you to.’
‘…’
‘I proposed a deal, you agreed to it, and among all the moments in your life, you chose to revisit one of regret. Likewise, you were the one who tried to change the past in hope of changing the future.’
Manager K patted the dust off her clothes. My eyes met hers, but I was at a loss for words. The accusations on the tip
of my tongue vanished in a wisp of smoke. She adjusted her sleeves and continued.
‘If it’s of any comfort, I must say that the timing was impeccable. Had you gone further back, the disease would not have been discovered, and perhaps you wouldn’t even have had a chance to schedule an appointment at the hospital.’
‘Then why is it that nothing has changed? I did the right thing. I did what I should … but why? You knew it, didn’t you? You knew that it’d still come to this, yet you kept me in the dark!’ I screamed into her face, but the noise quickly dissipated, as if the books surrounding us had absorbed the noise. Frustrated, I turned away from Manager K, spewing curses as I blindly knocked down the tower of books. Like autumn leaves that couldn’t withstand the rain, the books tumbled down, hitting my hands as they scattered across the floor.
My vision blurred. I went on a rampage like a runaway horse, but Manager K didn’t try to rein me in. I stomped through the piles of books, unable to contain the waves of bitterness raging in me. Meanwhile, she just stood there, beautifully poised, unaffected by my outpouring of emotion.
‘In every action lies a myriad of permutations I call
variables
,’ she said. ‘Just like how, among all the choices you have, you decided to accept the deal, and how, out of all the
moments in your life, you chose to return to that particular hour. Your mother, too, made her choices.’
Lightning flashed in Manager K’s eyes, and at the sudden burst of light, my mind turned blank. I shook my head, trying to balance myself. I had the curious sensation that the ground was rising and the ceiling closing in on me as her voice whipped the air like a crack of lightning.
‘Your father’s company was having problems long before you heard about it. Your mother was doing everything within her means to prevent the apartment from being auctioned, and that period coincided with your brother’s competition season for water sports. Of course, she was also busy attending parent-teacher meetings with your homeroom teacher as you were going into your senior year and university applications were looming. At that specific moment in time, everything was concentrated around each and every one of your futures, and so going to the hospital was the least of her concerns. In the end, things turned out this way.’
My breath caught in my throat. ‘What if … I return to the past just a day after, then I can make her promise to go to the hospital … Then the cancer can be discovered, and the treatment … No, I should’ve just dragged her right away to the hospital …’
I was mired in despair. I’d do anything if it meant I could save Mum. Manager K simply gazed at me; it was impossible to interpret her expression, or even her tone of voice.
‘Alright, assuming that your mother manages to discover her illness, does that really mean that everything that happens later will change?’
‘… Everything that happens later?’
‘Your father’s business problems, your brother’s competitions, and the university entrance exams you’ll be taking a year later. And everything else in between. Jiwon-ssi, you can’t change everything.’
I’d thought my despair would end here. My heart trembled with hope that I’d finally experience happiness again. What did I do wrong? What did I do …?
‘And one more thing. There’s something that you’ve forgotten—’
Shifting my eyes back to hers, I saw that Manager K was holding my life clock.
‘You and I have a deal. You must exchange your future for the chances to travel back to the past. The time you have is not unlimited. The choice may be yours, but you need enough time to make another trip back to the past.’
My thoughts screeched to a halt. Manager K tucked her
hands into her pockets. The sandglass defied gravity, hovering in the air before flying up and perching on top of a bookshelf.
‘Find something that is within your power to change. Don’t forget that you still have two chances.’
How cruel. How brutal. Bitterness filled me. I’d been so naïve and foolish to think I’d planned the perfect first trip back to the past. The journey I believed would be best for Mum had been futile. I’d been so sure that if everything had gone according to plan, Mum would return to my side again. But it wasn’t to be. Mum had put her family ahead of herself; she’d lived her life for us.
Back when Dad was living elsewhere for his job, I watched helplessly as Mum became a shadow of her former self. Breathing wasn’t the same as living. Mum was counting the days until Dad’s return, so that Jihoo and I would have someone to depend on and she could finally let go without any regrets.
Holding onto life with a broken body will just be a burden to you both
, Mum had told us.
I also want to be more comfortable
. But in her calm voice, I heard sorrow. She was telling me that she didn’t want to die, she didn’t want to leave us, she wanted to be with us, be a part of our lives …
That night, back in my rented room, I had buried my face into my blanket and bawled the whole night. I took after Mum in that respect; neither of us liked to show our tears publicly.
Dad was the type who could cry over a TV drama on the living room sofa. Same with Jihoo. But Mum and I thought crying in front of others meant a loss of pride, and even if we were alone, we hated how crying made our eyes sting and our noses twinge. But come to think of it, repressing our emotions was perhaps more harmful. And strangely, in this mysterious bookshop, I couldn’t stop my tears from falling. It was as if the dam had well and truly burst. I slumped down onto the floor of books, buried my face in my hands and cried once more.
What should I do now?
Alright, let’s assume that your mother manages to discover her illness then. Will that really mean that everything that happens later will change?
Things beyond my control.
Mum’s choices are hers to make.
I sat on the cold hard floor, and as tears splashed down, I pulled out, one at a time, the arrows that Manager K had driven into my heart.
Just like how, among all the choices you have, you decided to accept the deal, and how, out of all the moments in your life, you chose to return to that particular hour. Your mother, too, made her choices.
Mum sacrificed her time for our sake.
Jiwon-ssi, you can’t change everything.
I couldn’t change Mum’s decisions … I couldn’t save her.
The words reverberated in my head – over and over. I gazed at the life clock that was out of reach on top of the bookshelf. Manager K had told me that it held the remainder of my life, but in my eyes, I saw nothing. At this moment, I was the most worthless person on earth.
‘It’s a little messy here, isn’t it? It might not look like the best place to make important decisions, but if you look carefully, you may find it more helpful than being somewhere overly organized. The books here are all filled with fragmented thoughts.’
Manager K’s voice filtered through my reverie. I looked up. She was standing in the middle of the spiral staircase. And, as if by magic, as if they were being summoned by her voice, the bookshelves against the walls glided towards her. She reached out for a few books and leafed through them.
‘Is this what writers are like? You have many fascinating thoughts and ideas. Why didn’t you flesh them out into stories? I love this one – a murderer with a split personality. Here’s another one, two friends with psychopathic tendencies. And here, a story of a female writer set in the days when it was uncommon for women to be authors.’
Manager K walked briskly down the steep flight of stairs. In silence, I stared at the slim volumes – almost booklets – that she set in front of me.
‘You can also see them as fragments of thoughts you’ve abandoned.’
‘Thoughts that I abandoned?’
‘Yeah, I’m sure it’s a common experience  – intending to take action, make something happen, but then finding yourself thinking,
Eh? What was I going to do?
Or a good idea comes to you, but you shake your head, thinking,
No, this probably won’t work.
What else … Oh yeah, thoughts about the
if-onlys
, the possible roads not taken. They’re all here. And Jiwon-ssi, you seem to have a lot of such thoughts.’
As Manager K walked past, the books that were scattered across the floor rose into neat stacks, laying out a clear path before her. The bookshelves pressed back against the wall and the spiral stairs swivelled in the other direction. As she casually returned to her work, she suddenly paused, as if a thought had just come to her.
‘Oh. Let me correct myself. I didn’t mean to say that you have a lot of abandoned thoughts. You simply think a lot; some people are naturally like this. That’s why you have a lot of memories to store, and why this place seems to have infinite space.’
Not quite understanding what she was getting at, I turned my attention to the mess of booklets on the shelves. As I flipped open a few pages, I saw they were filled with scribbles and scrawls.
‘As the records are fleeting thoughts, the handwriting isn’t as neat. But your handwriting isn’t legible in the first place, so you shouldn’t have any problems. You may also find some books are written in code and require some effort to decipher.’
I noticed that despite our earlier disagreement, or rather my one-sided tantrum, Manager K wasn’t angry at all. While I remained clammed up, her voice was calm and soothing as she explained what fragmented memories were. I knew she was being considerate, but it wasn’t something I appreciated. I stood up abruptly.
‘What’s the point anyway?’ I asked, my voice filled with anger.
As if delighted that I was finally responding, Manager K paused what she was doing and turned to me with a smile.
‘These may be abandoned thoughts, but not everything here should be tossed away. Perhaps there’s a moment you might want to return to. Think of it like you’re treasure hunting.’
‘…’
That wasn’t the answer I was looking for. Her words were like a riddle, and it only added to the confusion and mixed
feelings tumbling within me. Feeling a wave of dizziness, I put my hand to my forehead. I closed my eyes and when I opened them, Manager K was nowhere to be seen.
I sighed.
‘What does she want from me …’
I sank down to the floor and lay on top of the grave of books, staring at the ceiling.
Manager K had made herself clear – I should find something that I had the power to change. But if Mum was never going to come back to me, was there anything else I could do?
I took a deep breath. Maybe it was time to give up. How had it come to this? Why had the Memory Bookshop appeared in front of me? Why had the woman made me a deal only to kick me back to square one? Whatever. I just wanted to return to the moment before I stepped into this place.
The moment before stepping in …? A tingle of electricity coursed through me.
‘That’s it! I should get out of here … cancel our deal. Simple as that.’
Time travel was a barter exchange between past and future time. I could go back three times, but nothing in the rules dictated that I had to use up all three opportunities. I jumped to my feet.
‘… Urgh.’
I was walking around in circles. Like medieval knights guarding a fortress, the bookshelves stretched on. No matter how far I walked, I couldn’t seem to escape the book graveyard. The spiral staircase that stretched up to the ceiling seemed to follow me. I was sure I’d entered the bookshop from the direction I was headed in, yet it seemed impossible to leave, such was the spell cast on this place. The books on the floor had multiplied to the point that I was struggling to wade through them. I sent books flying with every step and, in no time, the pile of books reached my ankles.
I let out a sigh. I gave the bookshelf blocking my way an angry shake. If these cursed memories and awful Manager K didn’t let me leave, I’d bulldoze my way out, even if it meant tearing down these shelves.
‘URGH!’
I let out an anguished cry. Like a crazed person on a rampage, I kept shaking the shelf until it spat out its guts and tens, no, hundreds of books cascaded down upon me. I fell down, my whole body aching with the imprint of the books.
Ouch.
Pain shocked my mind into a momentary blank. I could feel a bump rising on my forehead, and blood trickled down a gash in my forearm. With the last of my energy drained, I struggled to prop myself up.
Then, a memory landed in my lap.
I don’t know how to say
I’m tired or I want to give up
. I don’t know how to be vulnerable. Out in the deep countryside, the sun blazes down as I call Mum. ‘Everything is okay’, she says, her voice upbeat, but there’s something halting about the way she speaks. I can’t bring myself to complain further. After all, I was the one who chose this path. Just as I’m about to end the call with the usual farewell, Mum says, ‘If things are hard, quit and come home. Giving up is also a lesson in itself.’
I stared at the words stamped on the tattered pages.
Deep in the countryside. Sun blazing down. If things are hard, quit. Giving up is a lesson in itself
… As I read the words, memories unspooled in my mind, drawing me back to the summer when I was twenty-three.
‘I’m sorry, Team Leader. My mum is unwell, so I have to head back to Seoul.’
When I was in middle school, my dream was to become a producer-director at a TV station. I’d had several other dreams, but once the idea of being a PD took root in my head, I couldn’t imagine myself as anything else.
That year, I took a leave of absence from university and, by a stroke of luck, ended up as the newbie PD at a production house that offered outsourcing services. Back then, Mum – who’d finished her cancer treatment and was relatively healthy, or so we thought – was starting to experience strange symptoms. Meanwhile, work was so busy that I only returned to my rented room twice a week to get a change of clothes before heading back to the grind. It was incredibly tough and tiring, but it was my dream job and I was happy, or at least I told myself I was. What was unbearable, though, was the hierarchy and the power dynamics that came with it; the cut-throat hostility of surviving in the industry.
Giving up on something I’d dreamt of for so long wasn’t easy. One day, during a long business trip to the countryside, the sun baking down, I phoned Mum when she was in hospital for her hemiparesis treatment. It was this conversation that must be recorded in the book that landed in my lap.
After the phone call, I told my bosses I needed to go back to Seoul, that I couldn’t do the job anymore because I needed to be a caregiver. If I’m honest, I’d been a coward, hiding behind the excuse of Mum’s illness. The senior PD frowned and puffed his cigarette, his dark eyes fixed on me. It was as if he could see through my lies. I wilted under his gaze. In the end, I was the one who let my dream slip between my fingers.
But when I returned to Seoul, unemployed, Mum didn’t scold me. Instead, she patted my shoulder, told me that I’d done a great job to get so far. She said she could see how hard I’d been working, how difficult it must have been.
‘Mum …’
Like I did in the first trip back to the past, I let the word roll off my tongue, but it didn’t feel as uncomfortable this time.
My thoughts returned to the busy hospital. The dry air in the waiting room. My flimsy excuse of being cold to hold Mum’s petite hand. Dad’s promise to me, which in the end, he went back on. The aroma of rice in the kitchen. And Mum’s familiar scent, her warmth. Everything was etched into my memory, and that made me sadder. The tears started to fall again.
Find something that is within your power to change. Don’t forget that you still have two chances.
Manager K’s voice – the last thing I wanted to hear – rang in my ears. I quickly swiped away the wetness on my face, shook my head, and got up.
‘Two chances. Something that I’m empowered to change …’
I was starting to realize that the first trip back to the past hadn’t been futile after all – in fact, it had given me several precious things. Vivid memories of Mum looking healthy. The chance to re-experience everything I’d missed about her …
I had two more chances to return to the moments we shared. I dug through the mess of tangled memories. I realized I might not know exactly which memory I was looking for, but I was very sure that giving up on the opportunities the Memory Bookshop offered me wasn’t the right answer.
I picked up a few of the books lying in the pile next to me. They all seemed to date from 2008 – the year before I turned eighteen. I followed my instinct and reached for the one that drew me in the most strongly.
The fight with the kids from the neighbouring school escalates and I end up at the police station. We sit in a
line on the hard bench – a scene right out of a K-drama. But I’m less afraid of the policemen than seeing Mum walk through the door. Will she go berserk at me? Or stare at me in disappointment? The door opens. One by one, my friends’ mums rush in, hug their daughters, and break into sobs. My mum is the last one to arrive. Our eyes meet. She looks away and heads towards the police desk. In no time, she gets the situation sorted out. Outside the police station, I yell at Mum’s back. ‘You aren’t the least bit worried about me, are you? You’re always like this. It’s all about solving problems first!’ Mum turns around. I cannot read the look in her eyes.
I’ve returned to this memory often. The steely atmosphere of the police station, the sharp smell of metal, the shouting, the noisy typing on the cheap keyboards, the dismissive glances from the policemen as they walked past us.
I hadn’t wanted to get involved. I knew my friends were the ones who picked the fight. But I couldn’t just stand by and watch them getting beaten. So I ran to help. And before I knew it, my fists were stained with the blood of kids I didn’t even know the names of. There was a rage inside me I didn’t know was there. Shrill sirens shattered the stillness of the
quiet, residential neighbourhood. Only then did it dawn on me what I’d done.
With the book still open in my hands, I thought back to Mum’s expression that day. What if she’d just been trying to protect me? What if the look I’d read as judgement, had actually been fear? I realized I’d inflicted indelible hurt on Mum in that moment.
Should I return to that day …?
Perhaps I shouldn’t have got into that fight, shouldn’t have walked into that alleyway in the first place …
I tightened my grip on the book, my hands trembling. Come to think of it, that wasn’t the only memory with Mum that ended in regret. I always put my own feelings first, and even when Mum had hemiparesis, I still erupted and hurt her with my cruel words.
My hands gravitated towards a memory from a month before Mum’s passing. January 2016. I let out a hollow laugh. The bookshop, as if determined to prove its own power, was handing me my worst memories.
Dad and I are having a shouting match over something trivial. ‘I quit my job to look after Mum,’ I yell. ‘And what have you done?’ Mum, who’s inside the room, bursts
into tears. She’s convinced that all these terrible things are happening because of her. ‘How dare you? How dare you raise your voice?’ Dad shouts. I throw the plate into the sink, kneel in front of Mum, and hug her sobbing body. Her health has been failing. I say something I shouldn’t: ‘Mum, let me just die with you.’
I closed the book, my cheeks flushed with shame. If I were to choose my biggest moment of regret, it’d be that day. I shouldn’t have said that in front of Mum. I shouldn’t have pushed the blame, the anger, onto Dad …
But there was nothing I could do about it now. I couldn’t go back to that moment, I could only travel further back in time. All I could do was acknowledge that it happened. I threw the guilt-filled book onto the floor.
‘… What’s this?’
Something caught my eye. It was a stapled orange booklet that was too thin to be bound like the other spines. I pulled it out gently with my fingertips and looked at the cover. 22 May 2007. I was sixteen.
I’m so tired after staying up all night. Why is Dad vacuuming at this early hour on a Sunday? Tomorrow’s
Monday again. I don’t want to wake up. I don’t want breakfast. I just want to sleep. My friends are asking me if I’d like to see a film later. Should I go? What a chore. The door opens. Dad comes in with the vacuum cleaner, and over the loud hum, he nags at me to wake up. I cover my ears with the pillow and bury myself deeper inside the blanket until the noise leaves the room. Dad and his vacuum. Urgh.
It was an ordinary Sunday morning. On the only day I got to sleep in, Dad was vacuuming in the early hours, and I could hear Mum making breakfast too loudly in the kitchen. After about ten rounds of Mum and Dad taking turns to nag at me, I finally dragged myself out of my bedroom. Jihoo was at the dining table with his messy bed hair. He glanced at me and told me I should hurry before he polished everything off.
What a brat
, I remembered thinking. But we were so happy back then.
Hmm, why did this memory jump out to me? There wasn’t anything special or unusual. I turned the page.
1 p.m. Dad and Jihoo are out, and I’m watching TV on the sofa. Mum looks a little listless when she pops
her head around the corner and asks, ‘Want to come with me to Grandma’s grave?’ I blink. Grandma is buried halfway up the mountain at the family grave site near Mum’s childhood home. It’s possible to drive up, but we have to walk the last stretch. I shudder at the thought of the long, muddy road.
Ding
. A message comes in. My friends are pestering me for a reply about the film. ‘I have something on. You can go with the aunts,’ I say.
Then it clicked. Why this memory had sought me out. At the core of my guilt was the fact that I hadn’t done my best by Mum. That I hadn’t made enough effort to spend time with her, that I hadn’t loved her well enough. That was why I was mired in regret, why it was impossible to move on. Instead of holding onto all the hurtful words I’d said to her, what I should
really
do was make sure I’d been by her side. If I were to travel back to the past again, I should do something not for my own sake, but for Mum’s.
I quickly retraced my steps through the bookshop. Now I no longer wished to flee, a clear path opened up before me. I had spent too long wallowing in my failures. There were still two chances. I could still spend time with Mum. Perhaps that was what really mattered.
‘Looks like you’ve found the second memory. The bookmark is on the table.’ Manager K appeared and gave me a light smile. Nothing escaped her notice.
Keeping her expression neutral, she told me to sit down. I took the only chair that was in sight. In front of me was the bookmark, as if it’d never been moved.
‘I assume you already know what to do.’
A cold draught blew from nowhere as I slipped the bookmark in between the pages. Behind me, Manager K was arranging the books on the shelves.
‘You remember what I said about memories becoming distorted with time?’
I turned halfway towards her. As if feeling my gaze, she paused and as her eyes met mine, I saw blue waves undulating within.
‘The distortion of memories is fair.’
‘…’
‘Whether it’s the regret-stained memories or the happy ones that we want to hold onto forever – everything is equally distorted. So, this time, make happy memories. Make many good memories, so that they’ll roll into a large snowball.’
OceanofPDF.com

The Second Trip
In the dark, I heard muffled vibrations … I realized they were sounds of laughter. My eyes were closed but I thought I knew the source. The sounds were filtering through a TV speaker. I snapped my eyes open like a deer in the headlights.
‘I’m …’
Back.
I was lying on a three-seater sofa. In middle school I was only a hundred and fifty-six centimetres tall, and the squishy sofa felt as big as a bed. I wiggled my toes, feeling the tiny movements in my joints as if hoping to prove that this wasn’t an hallucination.
The TV was airing one of my favourite variety shows. I looked at my watch and checked the time. 12:56 p.m. I’d used one minute of my precious time to get my bearings, but it looked like I’d returned to the right moment.
22 May 2007. 12:55 p.m. I was at home. In that case …
Yes!
Mum came out of the bedroom and headed into the kitchen. Just as I’d read in the recorded memory in the orange booklet, she looked a little listless. Or rather, a little sad. No, more than a little. I hadn’t realized back then, but now that I was reliving the moment, I could immediately tell how she was feeling.
Mum filled a glass at the water dispenser and gulped it down. Meanwhile, I fished out my phone wedged between the sofa cushions and turned it off.
‘Jiwon-ah.’
‘Yeah, Mum?’
Propping a palm against the dining table, Mum sighed as she called out to me. I turned away from the TV immediately. A flicker of surprise crossed her features. I must’ve ignored her completely back then.
‘I’m planning to visit Grandma’s grave today, want to come along?’
There was a saying that you can only see as much as you know. Buried in time and lost in my memories, I hadn’t realized it, but right now, I could clearly see Mum’s longing etched on her face. She wasn’t simply listless or sad. She missed Grandma, the same way I missed Mum very much.
‘Do you already have plans with your friends?’ Mum asked.
‘Oh? Nope.’
‘Then why are you taking so long to answer?’
Mum must’ve expected that I’d say no as usual. I could see it in her eyes. I heard the loneliness in her voice, as if she was only asking on the off chance. I stood up.
‘I don’t have plans. Let’s go visit Grandma.’
When Mum met Dad and got married, she chose to settle down in the place she grew up in – in an area close to her childhood memories, to her family’s hanok house and the mountain where the family graves were. For the first time in a long while, I sat in Mum’s car. She was terrible at directions and generally couldn’t go anywhere without the GPS. Sitting in the front passenger seat, I watched her drive.
Mum was beautiful, and objectively so. Her prominent brow bones arched above her single eyelids, a sharp nose centred her features. Her thin lips had a natural pink hue to them. And even though she said she used to fret over her acne, her porcelain skin held no trace of it. I looked more like Dad now, but back in elementary school, everyone said I was a
carbon copy of Mum. My aunts would show me photos of Mum posing in the garden of their hanok house. ‘Back then, your mum was such a smart kid.’ Mum was a lot younger than the rest of her siblings, and they showered her with love.
In my eyes, Mum was no different than she seemed in her childhood days. She was still intelligent. She was smarter and wiser than anyone else, and to me – even if I didn’t always show it – I believed she was the most amazing mother. As if noticing my persistent gaze, Mum asked why I was staring. Ignoring Manager K’s warning about deviating from normal behaviour, I replied:
‘Nothing. Cos you’re pretty.’
Mum’s eyes widened, but a light smile played on her lips as she teased that the sun would rise from the west tomorrow. Meanwhile, I quietly inscribed her smile onto my memory.
As the car cruised down the familiar roads, we reached the mountainside in less than twenty minutes. Mum manoeuvred the car into the tight space beneath a huge tree. Instead of falling a few steps behind like I usually did, I walked by her side up the dark, muddy path.
Back then, I was good enough at sports that I’d seriously considered enrolling in a high school that specialized in it, but when I entered my twenties, and later, my thirties, sport
became a thing of the past. I was used to panting at the lightest physical exertion, so it was odd to feel the endurance in my young body. Even when we reached Grandma’s grave, I’d barely broken a sweat. It only served to heighten my sense of un-belonging.
‘Aigoo, we’ve been doing the memorial service at your uncle’s house so it’s been a while since anyone’s come. Look at the weeds!’ Mum exclaimed.
A wild carpet grew over the mound. For the next few minutes, she didn’t say anything and focused on clearing Grandma’s grave. Not wanting to disturb her, I hung back at Grandpa’s grave next to hers. Grandpa had passed away in a motorbike accident when Mum was still a child. Because of that, I only remembered him from the ID photo Big Aunt had shown me. The young man in the black and white photo looked handsome.
‘Mum, you don’t remember much of Grandpa, right?’
I looked nervously at my watch.
The flow of time was like a river. Even if I went into the water and used my entire body to block the current, the water would still break into rivulets and flow through the gaps. 1:54 p.m. My anxiety surged as I realized that more than an hour had passed. I had less than two hours left with Mum.
‘Yeah. It’s a blur. He passed away when I was young. Your grandpa was hoping for one more son but got me instead, so I grew up being a little awkward with him. We weren’t close, not like you and your dad. It’s not that I don’t miss him, but I don’t really remember much. Sometimes I wonder if things would’ve been different if he stayed with us longer …’
Mum threw a fistful of weeds into the undergrowth.
‘Your grandpa and grandma visited me in my dream last night.’ I noticed there was a touch of bitterness embedded in her voice.
‘…’
‘I dreamt of the day I was born. Your grandpa was so disappointed that I wasn’t a son. But not your grandma. After your uncle, she had a string of four daughters, yet she hugged me in delight. Of course, I have no idea if that was real or not, but I woke up missing her so much. Now that I’m a mother myself, I understand how it feels to carry your child for the first time. That’s why I hoped to come here with you today. But if you hadn’t wanted to, I’d still have come alone.’
Mum and I were the only ones on the deserted mountainside. Her voice carried more than a hint of sadness. Just like Mum said she understood Grandma, I understood
her too. When daughters grow up, the more we come to understand our mothers.
Mum sat down in front of Grandma’s grave. Not caring about dirtying my trousers, I sat down next to her. Between our silence, we listened to the mountain birds chirping, the cries of the insects I didn’t know the names of, the leaves rustling in the wind. I stretched out my legs and pushed the little pebbles around aimlessly. Keeping my tone light, I asked:
‘Mum, if Grandpa hadn’t passed away so early, what would you have wanted to be?’
Mum, having lost her dad young, grew up as a witness to the family’s declining fortune. Despite her intelligence, she couldn’t get the support she needed and had to help at home. She had five siblings who were older than her, and Grandma, who was getting on in age, no longer had the energy to be a hands-on mother.
My eldest aunt’s husband, a successful maths teacher in Busan, often lamented that my mum could’ve done better for herself. That was why he was even more disapproving of my dad who had nothing to his name.
Whenever the family gathered during major festive holidays, this uncle would always tell me the same thing when he was drunk –
You’re smart like your mum. Work hard,
live the best life that your mum couldn’t.
Back then, it had felt like precious praise, but also a heavy pressure. While trying to juggle the expectation and pretending not to feel the weight of it, I’d never thought to ask Mum. What had she wanted to be? What dreams did she have?
‘That’s such a long time ago … I can’t remember anymore,’ Mum said with a bashful smile.
‘Come on,’ I urged her to think. ‘There must be something you liked, something you wanted to do.’
‘Mmm …’
‘Weren’t you teaching computing at a cram school for a little while? If you hadn’t become pregnant with me, what do you think you’d be doing now? I’m curious about your dreams.’
Time continued to tick. However, I didn’t try to rush her for an answer. 2:12 p.m. I only had to leave at 3:55 p.m.
There was still time left.
According to Mum and Dad, I was a honeymoon baby. However, their wedding photos were date-stamped 23 December 1989. That was six months before I was born. Clearly, I was no honeymoon baby.
I only found this out in Grade 6. One day, fascinated by how young Mum and Dad looked, I’d stared at the wedding photo on Mum’s vanity table for a beat longer than usual. I knew their anniversary date, but it was only then that my brain registered the year. At Grade 6, I was smart enough to know that children weren’t born within six months.
When they met, Dad was working as an architect who aspired to set up his own business, while Mum was a cram school teacher. But when she got pregnant, she had to quit her job, and ignoring her family’s protests, she got married to my dad.
When I was young, I didn’t realize the significance of a woman having a career, and what it meant to give it up. My friends’ mothers were stay-at-home mothers so, naturally, I didn’t think too much about Mum being one too. I didn’t consider that being a stay-at-home mother meant she had to sacrifice herself for her
family, and that before being a wife and a parent, Mum had been a person with her own life and her own dreams.
Did my questions and curiosity come too late? Why didn’t I ask her back then? What she liked, what she wanted to be, or even something as simple as what she’d done that day?
After a long pause on the mountainside, Mum pulled her knees closer and spoke.
‘Hmm. I really can’t think of anything. I wanted to try many things, but after your grandpa passed away, I was just swept up in the daily grind. Even in this day and age, raising a child alone is hard, so imagine what it was like back in those days? Your grandma had to struggle by herself, and she had so many of us. Of course I managed to make it to university and ended up teaching computing at the cram school, but honestly, I don’t remember if it was what I truly wanted to do. That was such a long time ago.’
This wasn’t quite what I’d expected. I glanced at Mum, who was gazing softly into the sky. The look in her eyes, of emptiness chasing after the void, was familiar. I was sure I’d seen the same look in the mirror recently. I pulled out a weed and shook it. The earthy smell permeated the air.
‘What if you hadn’t become pregnant when you were twenty-eight?’
‘If I didn’t get pregnant?’
‘Or rather, what if you didn’t give birth to me? Haven’t you thought about it? Maybe you wouldn’t have needed to quit your job.’
Mum shifted her gaze back to me. Like two jigsaw pieces fitting perfectly, her eyes locked on mine, as if she could read all my thoughts. She laughed.
‘Then maybe I wouldn’t have married your dad and I’d be enjoying my single life,’ Mum teased. ‘I fell for his sweet talk and his promise that he’d give me a good life. Who knew this would happen? That’s why you must be careful when meeting guys … Be
very
careful. Your dad comes home late all the time and gives me so much grief … Aigoo. What’s the point of talking about this now?’
Mum shook her head. But a tiny smile tugged at the corners of her lips.
‘That’s an unserious answer,’ I teased, chuckling. Mum protested as she shoved my shoulder lightly and got up. I sat protected in the shade of her towering figure.
‘But Jiwon-ah.’ Mum gazed down at me.
‘Yeah?’
‘Even if there’s a what-if …’
‘…’
‘That’d never happen.’
‘What?’
‘Not giving birth to you.’
‘…’
‘Or not having you by my side.’
I choked up, and the tears threatened to fall. Her warm gaze, her affectionate touch … I wanted to unleash the sorrow within me. I didn’t want to part from her. The day Mum left us and the day of the funeral, I hadn’t let out a single sob. Now, I regretted forcing myself to swallow my tears. These days, in the privacy of my apartment, I’d cry at the slightest mention of
Mum
– a high price to pay for not knowing how to grieve back then.
I took her proffered hand and stood up. Soil stuck to my butt, and I brushed it off. Instead of patting the dust from her own clothes, Mum helped me with the places I missed. When she spoke, her voice was firm, unwavering.
‘I may not know what kind of life you’ll be living in the future, but to me, giving birth to you was the best choice I made.’
I chewed my inner lip, holding at bay the sadness that threatened to brim over. I swallowed hard, and the burning sensation flowed down my throat like tears.
‘… But you regretted marrying Dad. What if you chose differently?’
‘He might not be the best husband, but he’s the best dad to you. I’d never choose otherwise. Whatever my dream was, now it’s you, Jiwon-ah.’
In moments when I was lost in life, or when I stood at the crossroads, I’d always wish I could get a glimpse of the future. But right now, the full knowledge of what was going to happen years down the road felt like a terrible curse instead.
I grew up with love as deep as the ocean. It had always been more of a belief than an objective fact. Because when Mum was alive, we never had an open, honest conversation about our feelings. But now that belief took shape in the form of words, sounds, expressions, and the warmth that touched my skin. I felt ashamed that I had wanted to give up living.
‘Come, let’s go. I’m getting a little hungry,’ said Mum.
She shook the dust off her hands and turned to leave. As I watched her walk away, I thought of how I’d bidden her farewell for almost the last time.
Your life is precious. I protected it with mine. Don’t forget it. Live life to the fullest. Be the best of yourself and make me proud.
I’d forgotten that promise too easily.
‘Janchi guksu? I didn’t think you’d want to eat this.’
‘Mum, you forgot I’m a fan of noodles, just like you.’
‘True. But you never like piping-hot food.’
‘Now that I’m getting older, my tastebuds are changing.’
‘What a thing for a child to say.’
Mum chuckled over the steam as the bowls of noodles arrived.
The milky white broth was adorned with thinly sliced fried egg in a beautiful yellow, along with courgettes also sliced in the same way, topped with shredded toasted seaweed. We were at a pojangmacha – an outdoor food cart – covered with an orange vinyl tent, located below a big underpass a short ride from the mountainside. It was a favourite haunt of hikers and Mum’s go-to place for noodles. Because Dad loved mountain climbing, we’d hike every Sunday and have lunch here until I started middle school.
I used to hate the weekly routine. Waking up before sunrise, on a weekend no less, was torture, and I struggled to keep up with my dad’s big strides. My younger brother, the more affectionate one, would walk with Mum, chatting about this and that, while I trudged behind grumbling in silence about suffering every Sunday.
In elementary school, I was much smaller than my classmates, and as we stopped at the mineral springs on the mountain, the ajumma and ajusshi hikers would praise me for making it to the peak at my age. As Dad scooped up the mineral water with a blue plastic bottle, he’d reply that it was our weekly family activity, the pride evident in his voice. And so I had no choice but to keep up with the routine.
Memories are such a mysterious construct. When the mind is unwell, even the freshest of memories can be elusive, yet the ones from the distant past remain etched there permanently. I suddenly remembered everything from that day, even the clear sky. So perhaps memories weren’t forgotten but simply buried in the dark. And to torture myself, I kept digging out the memories that trapped me like nightmares, while burying the good ones, not unlike a huge grave covered with messy weeds.
Overwhelmed by my guilt, I’d dug out everything that I’d done wrong, tossing the soil over all the happy times I’d ever had, as if I was a person who didn’t deserve to live, as if I didn’t deserve happiness. However, the trip back in time seemed to be chipping away at this illusion.
I broke the wooden chopsticks with care – using too much force might break them unevenly – and placed them on top of
Mum’s bowl. A flash of surprise crossed her features, but she didn’t say anything.
For a while, the space was filled with the sound of Mum and I blowing at the steam and slurping the noodles. I mimicked the way she used her chopsticks to stir the broth, and when she reached for the pickled radish, I did the same.
I forced myself to swallow the food, clearing my throat several times, while casting several glances at Mum eating. I watched her slurp her favourite noodles and imagined them gliding down her throat to her stomach. She wasn’t just getting nutrition but enjoying the flavours, savouring each bite to feel the sense of fullness. Seeing that made me choke up.
If only I could eat her home-cooked meals once more. I lowered my head to the bowl. The tears glided down my lashes and made ripples in the broth.
‘It’s nice to be here with you,’ Mum commented wistfully.
‘But Mum, you like Jihoo more.’
‘Jihoo’s the youngest, and a son. You’re older, a strong independent daughter.’
‘How’s that even related …?’
‘Even if you’re a little quiet, and Jihoo’s a son who is more forthcoming with affection, in the end, only daughters will understand their mothers.’
Only a few remaining strands of noodles floated on her now-lukewarm soup. Mum tore her gaze away from her bowl and looked into the distance. What was she thinking about? I stared down at my bowl again.
‘Mum, do you miss Grandma very much?’
Mum folded her arms, pressed them heavily on the table, and let out a long breath. I thought I knew what was in that sigh.
‘Mum, when do you miss her more? When you’re happy? Or when you’re sad?’
‘Hmm … always. But if I have to choose, I guess I miss her more when I’m happy. It’s still possible to endure sadness alone, but in happy times, I yearn to share my joy with her. And because it’s impossible, the longing tugs painfully at my heart.’
I was truly my mother’s daughter. How similar we were. For a few years after Mum’s passing – and even still – I couldn’t get used to the idea of feeling happy. Joy didn’t feel complete when it was impossible to share it with her.
‘Mum, can I ask you something?’
‘What is it?’
Mum was a good teacher to me. All the way till middle school, she was the one who helped me with my homework. No question in the workbook was too difficult for her, and
honestly, she could pass as a schoolteacher, especially in maths and science. Unlike the humanities subjects like Korean language and literature where the answers are often subjective and open-ended, Mum liked how maths is objective and logical. She told me that everyone in the family leant towards the sciences, musing that I was the only one who loved the arts more.
I thought Mum might balk at my next question, which was definitely subjective. That was why I’d never asked her, and also why I was even more curious to find out. I felt the familiar stab of regret. Why hadn’t I spent more time bonding with Mum? Why had I let time just pass us by? However, instead of wallowing in the regrets of the past, I should keep going forward with courage. I moved my lips several times, struggling to form the words.
‘Mum, how do you think I should live my life? You told me I’m your dream. So what kind of person do you hope I’ll become?’
I thought Mum might fumble with the answer. After all, it was an open-ended question. Just like how I’d asked her about Grandma, perhaps she’d hem and haw and let her sentences falter. But when she spoke, she sounded firmer, surer than usual.
‘You don’t have to become a certain type of person.’
‘…’
‘Live for yourself. Do what’s best for yourself.’
‘… ’
‘I hope you’ll be able to do that.’
For a moment, I was lost for words.
‘I worry that you’ll live your life in your thoughts, the way I did.’
‘…’
‘Some thoughts can make you happy, but they are like chewing gum – the more you chew, they lose their shape. Don’t let the regrets stick to you, if you keep swallowing your thoughts, they might get caught in your throat. Don’t be like me. Live a simple life. Live for yourself.’
Mum knew. About the habits that tormented me, and about the kind of life I would end up leading. Then and always, I was the precious daughter she’d protect at any cost.
‘Aigoo, look at the time now. Jihoo will be home soon. Let’s go.’
With a glance at her phone screen, Mum left a 10,000-won note on the counter and got up. I followed briskly behind her to the car and checked the time on my watch. 3:50 p.m. Time stops for no one. It was time to leave soon. I had five more minutes.
I quickened my step and slipped my arm into hers. I was sixteen, a middle school senior. Acting like a baby was still acceptable, wasn’t it?
‘Mum, I’ll grow up to be an awesome adult.’
‘Do it, no one’s stopping you.’
‘I’ll stay true and live for myself.’
‘Yup, do it.’
Mum chuckled. Only as we approached the car did I pull away most reluctantly.
I’ll make it happen, Mum. Because I’m your dream.
OceanofPDF.com

Indirect Memories
The familiar smell of paper and wood tickled my nose as the gentle breathing of the memories surrounded me. I was no longer afraid. Instead of the anxiety I’d felt the first time I returned, I soaked in the quiet peace. Back in the hard chair in the reading room, I took a deep breath, closed my eyes, and basked in the atmosphere of the Memory Bookshop. I cracked my eyes open a slit, letting in the light that reminded me of a sunset glow. Slowly, I stretched out a hand to trace the grains of the wood on the table.
I was back. The reading room was exactly as I remembered it. The only difference was that a few items were placed neatly in front of me, as if they were sending me a message. The mess of books had been cleared away, leaving behind only the blue bookmark, and two books that I immediately recognized. Pushing the bookmark to the side, I stared at the dates written on the covers.
2 February 2009
22 May 2007
The two days of my life that I’d revisited. I ran my fingertips down the covers. The touch, the colour, the design – everything seemed the same. Yet, I was sure something had changed. The books were urging me to open them. I picked up the first one and slowly flipped it open.
I hear loud sounds outside the door. Mum, who is watching TV in the living room,
suddenly exclaims about how she’s forgotten about a 3 p.m. doctor’s appointment. I pick up my phone that’s next to the pillow. 7:40 p.m. The clinic would’ve closed for the day by now. Well, she can just make another appointment. It’s not the first time she’s forgotten something anyway. What’s the fuss? The day passes like any other.
The old record had been crossed out. I flipped to the next page. There was a new record in its place.
‘Aigoo, Kim Jiwon! My poor ears. Stop yelling for me.’ I hear Mum’s voice. I turn around. Mum with a rosy
complexion, standing tall without support. Mum with full cheeks, smiling at me. It reminds me of how Mum always makes people smile with her light banter and playful teasing. I wrap my arm around her waist. How warm. It feels a little awkward to walk by her side. There’s no need to rush and I need an excuse to hold her hand. Why am I such a distant daughter? But instead of harbouring regrets, it’s time to do something about it. The touch of Mum’s hand wrapped in mine is making me choke up. I miss her affectionate nagging. I must save her. I’ll not lose her twice. I now understand how Dad feels. I’m thankful that someone can take over the heavy burden, even if it’s just for a moment. I feel a squeeze in my throat. I don’t usually tell Mum this, and it makes it difficult. ‘Mum, I love you.’ I finally say it.
The two records were only separated by a page, but the warmth and feeling they contained felt so different. Was this how memories could be changed? I’d be lying if I said it didn’t hurt me, that travelling back in time couldn’t save Mum, but perhaps Manager K was right after all. Our choices and decisions shaped things to become the way they were. I couldn’t force a change, just because I wished for it.
I’d done my best and I could only respect Mum’s choices, acknowledge and understand them. I thought about my conversation with Manager K.
… If I go back in time, something will change, right?
More than you can imagine.
Change
didn’t necessarily mean a different outcome, I realized. Perhaps much more had changed, just as Manager K prophesized. While I was trying my best to alter the ending, there were important things that I’d forgotten, such as the memories of what Mum was like when she was healthy. After returning from the past, these memories were imprinted in my mind. I couldn’t call the trip a failure.
I reached out for the second book that contained the other memory.
1 p.m. Dad and Jihoo are out, and I’m watching the TV on the sofa. Mum looks a little listless when she calls out to me, ‘Want to come with me to Grandma’s grave?’ I blink. Grandma is buried halfway up the mountain at the family grave site near Mum’s childhood home. It’s possible to drive up, but we have to walk the last stretch. I shudder at the thought of the muddy road.
Ding
. A message comes in. My friends are urging me for
a reply about the afternoon film. ‘I have something on. You can go with the aunts,’ I say.
Like in the first book, the original memory was struck out in black ink. I turned the page.
Mum’s eyes glisten, like grass wet with dew, as she looks at the weeds growing on Grandma’s grave. Muttering under her breath about pesky weeds, she slowly pulls them out and it’s as if I’m seeing her tug at her yearning for her mother. Mum says she misses Grandma very much. I know that feeling. Even though I’m next to Mum now, I miss her so badly. I ask her the questions I’ve never asked.
Mum, what did you want to become? What did you want to do? What were your dreams?
Before she was a mother, she was her own person, but I’ve never thought to ask her any of these questions, not even something as simple as –
What did you do today?
The questions come too late. Mum says she doesn’t remember anymore. But she says she doesn’t regret giving birth to me. I’m her dream right now. I look at her back view and I tell myself –
The life that Mum has given me, I’ll live it well.
I ran my eyes over each word, yet I couldn’t help think that there was more to the memory. Right before my return to the Memory Bookshop, I’d dozed off in the front passenger seat of the car, and Mum had said something to me. I couldn’t remember what it was, but I was certain that she’d been looking at me and had shared something.
The book in my hands held no record of that moment. What did she tell me? Or what did she want to tell me? Even though I knew it’d be futile, I tried to surface the memory. But all I got was brain cramp. My leg gave a nervous jiggle, and I bit hard on my lip. The memory drifted tantalizingly out of reach.
I put down the book and walked to the other side of the room. The books on the shelves in front seemed to stare at me. Feeling their hot gaze, I rubbed the back of my head. Manager K had told me about memory fragments. Did that mean that there were more ways of recording memories? The thought took root, and I moved off down the corridor.
Only now was I truly hearing the bookshop’s voice.
While the bookshop was huge – the closest word might be
vast
– I was no longer lost. The bookshop was showing me the way. I didn’t know where I was going, but there was no need to.
The corridors, as if determined to use as much of the space as possible, stretched long and wide, but nestled in between was a tiny alleyway that nobody would’ve noticed. For some reason, it caught my eye, and I turned into it, as if something within was calling out to me. To my left and right was only a handspan’s gap, and it was narrow and dim.
I had no idea what the place held. Unlike the rest of the space surrounded by bookshelves, I was walking along a stretch of blank walls.
I paused. At the end of the alleyway, something gave me pause.
‘… A cabinet?’
Or should I call it a closet? The doors, fixed with metal handles, opened in the middle and there was an old-fashioned dial that looked like a security lock. Luckily, it wasn’t rusty, and the paint looked fairly fresh. I could imagine the doors
opening with a piercing screech, like fingernails clawing across metal. I rested my hand on the cold handle and hesitated. The cabinet must’ve appeared in front of me for a reason. In that case, there was only one thing left to do. I pushed down the handle and pulled.
Creaaaaaak.
My hair stood on end. The dial wasn’t locked. I pulled harder, and the cabinet yawned open and spat out a bunch of papers in a loud rustle.
‘What are these?’
After a moment flustering, I realized they were rough papers in a light grey. I knelt down and looked at the spread of paper petals on the dark wooden floor. They, too, looked like m
emories. I picked one up.
24 July 1990
A Look. Her nose is exactly like mine.
B But she takes after me more.
A You have dark skin. Our baby is fair.
B Well yes, that I agree with, but look, she has my eyes. She’s going to look even more like me when she grows up.
What …?
This was unlike any of the memories I’d read so far.
Instead of a first-person essay, it looked like a script or a dialogue of some sort. There was no indication of who was speaking but from the date and what they were talking about, it wasn’t difficult to guess. It must be a conversation between my parents a month after I was born.
What were these records? I needed to see more. I scooped up the pieces and arranged them neatly. Gripping the stack with my left hand, I leafed through them. They were all in the same format. I searched for a date that I might recognize.
‘Oh? … Found it!’
It felt like something was shifting, my story changing.
From the moment I’d stopped doubting the bookshop, it felt like a friend who had my back, who always knew what I needed. I grinned as the date I was looking for appeared right in front of me.
22 May 2007
It was a script from the second trip back to the past. I took out the piece of paper, leaving the rest in a corner, and started to read.
A Jiwon-ah, are you sleeping? Maybe I shouldn’t have dragged you out … But I’m glad we came together. I’d have felt very lonely without you.
Just like the previous sheet of paper, this, too, had no names written down. But I knew. It was Mum. After visiting Grandma’s grave and eating the noodles at the pojangmacha, Mum must’ve said that to me when I fell asleep in the car. The voice that I vaguely recalled hearing.
I read on, as if the voice was talking directly to me.
A When I was pregnant with you, work was so busy that I barely had time to eat a proper meal, not to mention do any kind of prenatal education. Lunch was always kimchi stew. But you’ve never complained. You grew up well and weren’t fussy. I didn’t even experience pregnancy nausea.
Jiwon-ah, Mummy wasn’t forced to quit my job because of you. I chose to do it because I wanted to be a good mum. I’ve never regretted the decision. Even if I could go back in time, I’d have chosen the same all over.
… I will not cry
, I told myself. If I did, the ink would smudge. I tried to hold the emotion in, but the tears wouldn’t listen, the tears wouldn’t stop. Fearing that they’d splash onto the paper, I quickly wiped them away with the back of my hand, only to accidentally crease the paper. Tears stained the edges. Everything was a mess.
Growing up, Mum had showered me with much love, and I had hoped to do something for her by going back in time. But the further back I travelled, the more I realized that her love for me wasn’t something that I could repay. How … how could someone give such unconditional love without expecting anything in return? A person isn’t born with motherly love the same way we’re born with hands and legs. How was it that just because she grew a little life inside her womb, that just by giving birth to me and raising me, she could give herself unconditionally?
I wanted to know. I wanted to understand Mum. I wanted to feel more grateful than sorry towards her. Perhaps
that
was the change I needed. I didn’t want to think of Mum and only be reminded of her suffering.
I wanted to know more of the story.
‘Aigoo, these were supposed to be bundled up by the year and date. But sometimes they come loose like right now. Not
that there’s a hole or anything, but some memories will break free. I need to organize them again.’
In the silence of my thoughts, a voice filtered through the gap. I turned. Leaning against the wall with raised eyebrows was Manager K. Her lips lifted mischievously.
Swiping my tears away, I turned towards her.
‘What are these records? I have my guesses, but I’m still not sure. It feels like these memories exist in me, yet they don’t?’
Her trainers tapped a steady rhythm as she came closer and picked up the pieces of paper on the floor.
‘These are what we call indirect memories.’
‘Indirect memories?’
‘Didn’t you say these memories feel as if they exist, yet they don’t? They’re buried in your mind, but you don’t remember them at all.’
That sounded even more vague. Was she being deliberately evasive or was I having problems understanding? The more I ruminated over her words, the more they seemed like riddles. I turned back to the opened cabinet. I’d been so flustered by the attack of the loose sheets that I didn’t think to look at the other stacks of paper tied up in black string.
Indirect memories.
What did that even mean?
‘Even when we’re sleeping, we’re still listening.’
‘…’
‘Same for foetuses. Why do people do prenatal education? It’s because the child in the womb can also listen and feel. However, it’s not something that we experience directly or consciously, so they’re not recorded in the same way as the books. We call these indirect memories.’
Everything clicked. Now I knew why they contained records of Mum and Dad having a conversation when I was a baby, and Mum’s heartfelt words when I was asleep during the second visit to the past. I might not remember them explicitly, but this bookshop, true to its name, recorded all my memories. I could call upon the ones I didn’t know existed; things that I might not have known otherwise. My chest started thumping. I had no idea what I should look for, but my heart surged as if I’d already found the answer.
‘If you don’t mind, can you help me put these back inside the cabinet, please?’ Manager K said. ‘The corridor is too narrow, it’ll be hard to squeeze past you.’
Hearing a rustle of paper, I turned around. Taking the greyish stack of paper, I walked towards the cabinet. Behind me, Manager K called out.
‘It’s time for the last trip. See you back at the reading room.’
13 Nov 1989
A If we have to agree to your marriage just because you’re pregnant, we wouldn’t have opposed it in the first place.
Manager K was right. I was holding memories from before I was even born.
B Mum, he’s hardworking. And I’m sure he’ll succeed in the future. We’ll live well.
A You have so many better alternatives, why take the path filled with thorns?
B But how would you know if it’s good or bad if I haven’t even walked the path?
A Oh please! If it’s about the child, just let it go.
B … Mum! How could you? Are you seriously asking me to abort the child?
A If you don’t give up on the pregnancy, what about your own life!
Why, of all memories, did my eyes land on this? Was it fate? Or destiny? Or someone’s idea of a prank? This record was at the top of the stack that Manager K handed to me. I’d been slotting the papers back into the cabinet when I pulled the piece out again, my curiosity winning out. It looked like a conversation between Mum and Grandma.
B Mum … of all people, how could you say that!
A Precisely because I’m your mother! That’s why I have to say something, even if I have to be the bad guy.
B Because you are my mother, can’t you just let me have my way this once? No matter what, I will get married and give birth to this child.
When I discovered my parents conceived me before they got married, I imagined something like this might’ve happened. I’d already found out that my mum’s family was fiercely opposed to the marriage, so this was a likely scenario. But back then, it was just a theory that I could cast aside. To have it barge into my reality like an unwanted guest was another story.
Time seemed to come to a standstill as I stared at the
words on the page, and I felt the strength of the memories breathing around me in the bookshop. I thought about how, in that moment, Mum wasn’t Mum. Mum was someone else’s daughter. Mum was herself.
As Grandma had said, what if Mum had got an abortion and never got married at twenty-eight? All those what-ifs that must’ve also plagued Mum, Dad too. Un-erasable, unforgettable. Same as coming here.
Thoughts flooded my mind. I quickly shoved the paper back into the cabinet, and stood in a daze in the dark, narrow space.
‘What should I do now …?’
I blinked, my eyes vacant. The cold handles of the cabinet glinted in the light of the bookshop. I needed to get moving quickly to find the last memory. I lifted my hand with difficulty, a heaviness flooding my limbs, and closed the right-hand door.
Thud.
It made a dull sound as the other side of the door rattled. From the left-hand side, a bundled stack of papers tied with a coarse string fell out.
14 Nov 1989
The day after Mum and Grandma had a disagreement over her decision to get married.
A Mum told me to abort our child. She says if the pressure is because of the baby, all the more reason not to get married.
I could hear Mum’s voice in those few lines. I imagined her not being able to sleep a wink, letting out a heavy sigh, her face buried in her hands as she swallowed her sobs. Beside her, someone patted her shoulders. A big, warm hand.
B She’s your mum. Just as you’re worried about our child, your mother is worried about
you
.
Was that Dad? I imagined their youthful voices.
A Don’t you feel upset at all? To be treated this way by my family?
B It’s hard, of course. But what can I do? I don’t have anything to my name; I can only prove myself with time.
These might be old words on a faded piece of paper, but I could feel the love and care. It was hard to imagine, knowing what I did about Mum and Dad’s relationship, and how it
changed over the years. How Dad hadn’t always been the best husband. What I could see were just letters in black ink. Yet the words were evocative; it was almost as if I could see what was happening. The bookshop was showing me how, before they became Mum and Dad, they were just a man and woman in love.
B It takes a lot of sacrifice to raise a child and build a family. From now on, it’s not just me and you, but us. And not just the two of us but also our child.
A Yeah. As my mother says, many things will change. Perhaps everything will change. But I don’t see it as a sacrifice, only a choice. A choice I make to protect my loved ones, to be responsible for them. I have faith that this will be my bravest and happiest decision.
When I was in despair over how I couldn’t save Mum, despite travelling back in time, Manager K had told me it was a consequence of my mother’s actions. Mum insinuated the same thing when we were having a deep talk during my second trip to the past. And right now, this memory was
reminding me again. What happened wasn’t a sacrifice on her part, she was simply putting her loved ones first.
I flipped through the stack of records. In that moment, it was clear – I knew the chapter I wanted to return to. I wanted to see it with my own eyes: that Mum hadn’t made the wrong choice. I pulled open the cabinet door. And the first paper I pulled out was stamped with the date I was looking for.
20 June 1990.
The day I was born.
A Aigoo, what a pretty newborn! Aren’t babies usually red, ugly, and wrinkly?
The room was filled with laughter and a buoyant mood.
B What a tiny baby. How heavy is she?
A 2.8 kg.
B She’s too small, even for a girl.
A Mum. Hold your granddaughter. Look at her wriggle.
It wasn’t hard to guess who they were. My aunts and Grandma who was fussing over her youngest daughter.
D Your daughter is going to be exactly like you, and you’ll know what you’ve been putting me through.
A Aigoo, Mum. How can you say that in front of the child?
D … She’s so pretty. And look, she’s not crying, she’s just gazing up at us. Raise her well. I see you radiating happiness, and that’s good enough for me.
Grandma returned me to Mum’s arms. Swaddled in soft white cotton, I couldn’t move but I wrinkled my eyes, nose, and lips as if to prove that I was healthy and well.
I ran through the bookshop, with the memories from June 1990 held close to my chest.
This was the moment I’d return to.
OceanofPDF.com

The Third Trip
‘Come in, I’ve been waiting.’
As usual, the route back to the reading room was faster, belying the infinite corridors and vast landscape of shelves that filled the bookshop. I turned to Manager K, who was sitting on the edge of the table with her legs stretched out. She flashed me a smile. But my attention was caught by something else.
On the table was the sandglass that supposedly contained the remainder of my life.
If you could go back to the past with the time you have left, Jiwon-ssi, what would you choose?
We had a deal to exchange the remainder of my life for three chances to relive the past. A heavy price to pay, turning back time at the expense of my lifespan. I hadn’t forgotten about our deal, but in the process of chasing hope and memories, I’d put the existence of the life clock on the backburner.
I put down the stack of papers and returned Manager K’s gaze. She pushed my life clock towards me, as if wanting me to have a clearer view. But from where I stood, the clock looked the same as before.
‘Even those who claim they no longer have attachment to life would instinctively check the life clock upon their return to the present. But not you, Jiwon-ssi. Unlike everyone else, who calculated the time they had to give up for each trip, your focus was purely on travelling back to the past. Such is the grip that your regrets and guilt have on you. You’ve been so sure that if you can’t change the past, then the future or the present no longer matters. So—’
‘…’
‘How do you feel now? I see that you’ve found the third memory. In that case, aren’t you curious about how much time you have left?’
In the quiet, windowless space, a breeze blew, grazing past the grass, the soil, the paper, the tree, and water. Perhaps the breeze came from the sea within the woman’s blue eyes.
‘I am. I’ll have to travel a long way back for this trip.’
I thought about how hard I’d worked to change Mum’s ending, to alleviate the immense guilt inside me. Putting aside everything about choices, the hard truth was that I’d failed at
my goal. But strangely, I wasn’t upset. When I first stepped into the bookshop, my heart was empty, and after realizing that I couldn’t save Mum, I resented Manager K for giving me false hope. But right now, my heart was simply at peace. As if the breeze floating past my ears contained a soothing magic.
Manager K was still leaning against the table. Slowly, she folded her arms, but I couldn’t read her expression.
‘Strange. Am I wrong to think that you’ve found the will to live on? Or that you at least don’t want to die anymore?’
‘You’re right. I no longer want to die.’
‘You haven’t forgotten that travelling back in time will use your remaining lifespan, right?’
‘I know, so that’s why I want to know how much time I have, and if it’s enough to make the last trip?’
Manager K unfolded her arms and stood up. She pushed the life clock along the table and then lifted it towards me. Up close, the beautiful landscape within the sandglass didn’t look any different.
I gazed into Manager K’s eyes. She was so close now that I could hear her breathing. In her eyes, I saw a still sea. She held up the stack of paper I’d brought with me to the reading room.
‘I think you already know.’
‘Know what?’
‘That what you see isn’t everything.’
In her voice was a tinkle of laughter. She glanced at the date I wanted to return to.
‘Just as you suspected, your remaining lifespan is still yours to keep.’
‘…’
‘As required, there have been some changes as a result of your trips to the past. For a while, a thunderstorm raged, the waves turned choppy. But then the sun came out again and all was calm at the horizon line.’
‘…’
‘Until very recently, perhaps you were convinced that nothing really
had changed. But I’m sure you also had a flicker of hope. And you’re right. After going back in time twice, something
has
changed. You learnt the value of spending time with your mother and cherishing the moments you shared together. You remember what your mother was like when she was healthy, and you found your desire to live again. Because of that, as we agreed in the deal, your lifespan has been returned to you. But are you sure you want to risk it and make the third trip? Do you think there’s still time to change something else?’
I watched her step away from me – not a single speck of dust on her black jacket – before coming to a halt. In between us was the long table, and the bookshelves surrounded us like sturdy walls of a fortress.
Manager K put down the stack of indirect memories next to the bookmark I’d pushed aside earlier. I watched her from behind.
‘Do I have enough time to make the last trip?’
She turned around.
‘If you fail to get something out of it, you won’t be able to return, and you’ll disappear forever – lost without a trace in the past.’
I knew she wasn’t bluffing – not like I’d thought at the start. But I was also no longer as fearful. I knew what she was saying could prove true, and I understood fully what she meant.
Still, I stepped forward, closing the distance between us. With each step, I steeled my resolve. In my hands were the memory I wanted to return to, and the bookmark that’d get me there.
‘I am sure I’ll be able to come back. I already know what I’ll be getting out of this trip.’
In the stack, I looked for the record from 20 June 1990 and slotted the bookmark within. Smiling, Manager K took the
memory. She gripped the handle of the door, and I steadied my breathing as she pulled it open.
‘Have a safe trip. See you.’
The time traveller exists as themselves in the past.
20 June 1990, 2 p.m. The moment my life began.
I wouldn’t need the watch. I’d returned it, still set at noon, to Manager K before crossing the threshold. She gave a slight nod of understanding and held the strap in her hand. A warm wave enveloped me as I crossed the boundary for the last time. The surroundings darkened and I felt my body shrink. Closing my eyes, I let time wash over me.
I had imagined myself to be breathless, but it was warm and comforting. In fact, the movements felt natural. Instinctively, I didn’t struggle and let the faint light guide me to meet the world.
Just like coming out of a pool after a long swim, the cold air stuck to my wet body. I felt liberated, at the same time as loud noises reverberated all around. After many attempts, I opened my eyes and light pooled in. I didn’t even have a moment to process the dizziness. I gazed around the room and took in the shapes of people busily moving about. I slipped out and, for a moment, I was held in mid-air before being passed to
someone. I felt myself being cradled. A familiar touch, a familiar warmth. Mum.
My eyes couldn’t focus, but I tried my best to look at her. Mum used to say that I was born a tiny baby, and she didn’t have to suffer at all. But right now, she looked completely spent. Messy hair, beaded sweat on her forehead, glazed eyes. Mum had had a hard time.
I’d thought I’d be able to see and hear much more clearly, that I’d be able to witness Mum and Dad’s faces light up in joy. But even through my disorientation, I could feel Mum’s love, the happiness that radiated from her coursing through me like electricity.
I burst into tears, as if letting out all the sorrows I’d accumulated. Right now, I didn’t have to care. I could cry as much as I wanted. Squirming my tiny body, my cries grew louder, and Mum put her face closer. She hugged me and pressed her lips against the crown of my head. A drop of wetness landed on my skin, and as it melted into me, I heard it whisper.
My precious and beautiful child. You’re my entire world. I promise to make you happy.
Cleaned and swaddled in white cotton, I could barely squirm, but I felt at ease. I was passed around and carried
out of the delivery room. Like Mum, Dad had also lost his father at a young age. Having endured hardships in his youth, he grew to be a stoic man, but the moment he saw me, he jumped up from the plastic chair outside the delivery room. I could feel waves of emotion undulating and spreading down the corridor. In the nurse’s arms, I watched as Dad put his hands up to his head and let out a soundless exclamation. His eyes shone brighter than the Milky Way.
Despite knowing that there was absolutely nothing I could do in this moment, I’d chosen to cross the entire stretch of my life to return here. I had no idea how much of the three hours had passed, but I didn’t regret it. All my life, I thought Mum had made the wrong choices, but they turned out to be right. Every moment, Mum was choosing the best for herself and for our family. It was love that led the way.
I lay down in the cot and let the seconds flow over me. Somehow, time seemed slower than usual. Staring up at the empty ceiling, I thought back to all the chapters in my life. The despair I’d felt, the bleakness of my future, how my anger and resentment had built walls around me that couldn’t be easily knocked down.
When I agreed to the deal with Manager K, I thought death would be waiting at the end of it. Because I didn’t have the
guts to choose death on my own, it was the best opportunity I had. But I no longer thought this way. The visits to the past had given me vivid memories of Mum in good health, precious time with loved ones, and the resolve to protect the life Mum had given me. And from this moment, I’d be able to remember Mum and Dad’s happy faces at my birth. No matter how much time passed, I’d remember this and it’d be the reason for me to keep going.
I had gained so much.
In the nursery, gentle breathing surrounded me. Surrounded by newborns – swaddled in cotton with only their faces peeking out – it felt as though I’d been reborn. Sleep came easily to me in the cosy space where the temperature was perfectly regulated. However, just before I could doze off, someone picked me up. Instinctively, I knew what was about to happen next …
The conversation I’d read in the bookshop, where I was surrounded by people who loved me, who were waiting to see me … Their smiles and affectionate words. This must be the moment where those memories were made.
‘Aigoo, what a pretty newborn! Aren’t babies usually red, ugly, and wrinkly?’
‘What a tiny baby. How heavy is she?’
‘2.8 kg. The doctor says it’s rare for babies to open their eyes immediately, my darling is special. The way she stared at me with her round eyes and started crying. As if she knows that I’m her mum.’
‘She’s too small, even for a girl. It’s like how hedgehogs think their babies have smooth skin; you’re exactly like that.’
‘Mum. Hold your granddaughter. Look at her wriggle.’
I was transferred from Big Aunt to Small Aunt, and then to Grandma’s embrace. Mum sat on the bed propped up with pillows and followed me with watchful eyes as I was passed around. Grandma grumbled affectionately, but to me, Grandma’s eyes were also following Mum’s movements the same way.
‘Raise her well. I see you radiating happiness, and that’s good enough for me.’
‘… Thanks, Mum.’
Finally, I was returned to Mum’s embrace. Her tears fell onto my cheeks and glided down. Feeling the overwhelming emotion, the only thing I could do was wriggle in greeting.
Hello, Mum.
And goodbye, Mum.
OceanofPDF.com

The Memory Bookshop
Back in the present, I found myself sitting against the trunk of the large tree. The light scent of grass filled my nose, and the rough bark grazed against my back, reminding me that the journey had ended. I was being released from the gentle binds of magic, and returned to where I belonged.
I felt the vitality of life in the moist ground that touched my palms and my bottom. Like being interrupted in the middle of a lazy Sunday afternoon nap, I slowly opened my eyes. The bookshelves seemed to be welcoming me, telling me that they’d been waiting for my safe return.
My heart was full, yet there was also a touch of melancholy and emptiness. I made no move to get up. I slowly blinked, letting the seconds pass me by. This was the end. I’d never see Mum again. The thought settled, but I no longer had tears to shed.
I ran my eyes over the bookshelves. Just as when I first stepped into the bookshop, the volumes weren’t arranged in
any clear order, yet at the same time, it felt like everything had changed.
I dragged myself up. Tucked in a curved bookshelf, the life clock, supported by golden pillars, was glimmering. I stretched out a hand slowly and touched the cool glass.
If I turned the sandglass upside down, was I going to upend the world inside? Would it become a topsy-turvy universe where the sky became the land, and the sea became the sky? Giving in to curiosity, I didn’t even stop to think before my hands moved.
I flipped the sandglass. Strangely, it was as if the world inside had frozen. Everything remained the same. It was still impossible to tell whether it was day or night. The same horizon line stretched over the narrow neck. The clear sky, the bright sea. It felt like gazing at a scene from the edge of a cliff.
‘After the contract ends, the life clock stops moving.’
‘…’
‘That’s right, our contract has ended.’
As usual, Manager K appeared quietly, her voice was gentle. I returned the life clock to the shelf and turned around. She leaned casually against a bookshelf. The sleeves of her jacket were folded up twice, revealing the shiny silver bracelets on her wrist.
‘Welcome back.’
She smiled at me. I used to find it hard to read her expression, but now she radiated a comforting warmth. Feeling at ease, I replied, ‘I told you. I’d be back.’ Nodding in satisfaction, she walked up towards me, and I could smell the faint scent of wildflowers.
She suddenly leant in close, the bookshelves behind me pressed against my back, and she whispered in my ear.
‘I’m not trying to shoo you away, but when you’re leaving, take these with you – my parting gift.’
She nodded in the direction of the bookshelf, where four books and a folded piece of paper sat on one of the shelves. Towards Manager K, I’d felt a range of emotions, from doubt and suspicion, to anger, and now comfort. I grinned. Her gentle breath touched my neck as she drew away. What she’d given me were new memories of the past, and fresh memories that had been written.
‘I guess I should head back, right?’
I was reluctant to say goodbye. Pressing the items into my hands, she nodded.
‘You could stay here,’ she added, ‘but don’t you have a world you want to return to?’
I felt a tugging sense of longing. I took the books she’d
gifted me and nodded back. In her eyes, the sea was still. Not a breath of wind, nor a ripple on the surface.
I walked towards the entrance of the bookshop, leaving the huge tree behind. My shoes squeaked on the old maru flooring, creating a harmony with the woman’s footsteps. In the bookshop, the search for a memory had always been longer than the journey back. Right now, the reddish-brown door with flaking paint appeared in front of me, as though it was only a handspan away. At the door, I glanced back once more at the bookshop and at Manager K. Just like when we first met, she simply looked at me.
‘I almost forgot to say this,’ I whispered.
‘What is it?’
‘… Thank you. For everything.’
It was so hard to leave because, like the farewell with Mum, I knew that this would be the last time we were meeting. Manager K came up to me, and without saying anything, she pressed a hand on my shoulder. Increasing the pressure a little, she turned me towards the door. I was slightly disappointed that she was pushing me away, but I knew she was doing her best to send me off.
Hugging the memories close to me, I slid the door open. The cold winter wind greeted my return to reality, and as the
door shut behind me with a thud, I heard her voice, filled with emotion.
‘Be well, Jiwon-ssi.’
The biting winds cuffed my ears like sharp knives. It was dark all around. I peeked my head out past the awning to check if it was still raining, only to feel snowflakes landing on my face.
At the cold sensation, I shrank back, as though waking up from a winter slumber. I sandwiched the books under my arm and stuffed my hands into my pockets.
Ding.
A message came in. I had forgotten about the existence of my phone. I quickly dug it out.
The screen shone bright, illuminating the date and time on the lock screen. 28 February 2023, 12:10 a.m. I checked the dates of the books and the piece of folded paper.
2 February 2009
22 May 2007
20 June 1990
27 February 2023
28 February 2023
Because of my insomnia, dates and time were usually all a blur … It hit me in that moment that today was Mum’s death anniversary. The wind was blowing up a snowstorm. My hands were frozen from the biting cold as I flipped open the book with yesterday’s memory.
It’s an unexpected downpour in the middle of winter. I’m taking shelter in what looks like an old bookshop. On the wall, the sign reads:
Bookshop. Giyeok Bookshop. Captivated by the word
bookshop
, I slide open the door. I stand at the entrance, looking into an empty space.
Because the memories were still fresh in my mind, the ink on the paper was so faint I feared the words might disappear any moment. I closed the book and opened today’s records. I flipped to a random page, and saw the ink was even lighter.
I say thank you. And for the first time, I can feel that the woman is flustered. But she doesn’t show it. She nudges me gently to return to the outside world. She tells me, ‘Be well, Jiwon-ssi.’ I gain the courage to walk out.
I wasn’t sad exactly, but I felt a rush of feelings and, before I knew it, the tears were falling. As they spread on the paper, the ink evaporated. I turned back, but instead of seeing the reddish-brown door, there was only a grey cement wall. As if the door had never existed in the first place. The sign on the building was also nowhere to be seen.
I leafed through the other books. From the writing in the records themselves, to the dates on the covers, everything was gone. In the blink of an eye, they’d turned from records of memories to plain notebooks. I smiled. I might not be fully healed just yet, but seeded in my heart was the confidence that things would become better. What the Memory Bookshop had given me wasn’t a life-changing miracle, but a precious opportunity to live better.
Instead of running away from the elements like I had before, I walked confidently into the snowstorm.
Indeed, memories are best kept in the Memory Bookshop.
OceanofPDF.com

Author’s Note
As a writer, and before that, as an avid reader, I feel myself shrink before an author’s note. I’m a little shy to admit it, but when I was writing this note, I mulled over what other authors had written and what I’d like to say to my readers, in the hope that reading this note won’t be a waste of your precious time.
I found myself becoming someone who yearned for miracles. Every night, I prayed fervently to a god that I don’t even believe in. But again and again, painful betrayals extinguished my flame of hope.
Miracles
. What the dictionary defines as an extraordinary event that doesn’t follow the laws of nature. Mysterious and unusual. A situation that one can’t help but attribute to the act of God. You can’t work for a miracle. It’s closer to fantasy, something you see in a film or drama. Maybe that’s why I couldn’t help but yearn for it, obsess over it.
Why did I long so badly for a miracle? The answer was simple. Because of reality. To make my reality a little better, I truly needed a miracle. The miracle I’d hoped for was also what Jiwon wanted in the novel. Hence, the fantasy world I’d created, instead of being all sweet dreams and hopes, was tinged with the bitter reality of life.
In writing this book, I wasn’t trying to heal or comfort others. I don’t think I’m mature enough to do that. Instead, I wanted to write about the universal experience of grief, to bring warmth and solidarity to those who might be going through something similar. Just like how the miracle of the Memory Bookshop came to a nobody like me, I hope that you’ll find your own memory bookshop at some point, and the fact that we’re meeting between the pages is proof of that.
Dear reader, thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Song Yu-jeong
OceanofPDF.com

The Memory Bookshop
Song Yu-jeong
Translated from the Korean by Shanna Tan
OceanofPDF.com

Copyright
HarperCollins
Publishers
Ltd
1 London Bridge Street,
London SE1 9GF
www.harpercollins.co.uk
First published by HarperCollins
Publishers
Ltd 2026
Copyright © Song Yu-jeong 2024
Cover design by Sarah Foster/HarperCollins
Publishers
Ltd
Cover illustration © Rini Illustration @xoxo_rini
Interior illustrations © Rini Illustration (cat) and Shutterstock.com (hourglass)
Song Yu-jeong asserts the moral right to be identified as the author of this work.
A catalogue copy of this book is available from the British Library.
This novel is entirely a work of fiction. The names, characters and incidents portrayed in it are the work of the author’s imagination. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events or localities is entirely coincidental.
Without limiting the exclusive rights of any author, contributor or the publisher of this publication, any unauthorized use of this publication to train generative artificial intelligence (AI) technologies is expressly prohibited. HarperCollins also exercise their rights under Article 4(3) of the Digital Single Market Directive 2019/790 and expressly reserve this publication from the text and data mining exception.
All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the non-exclusive, non-transferable right to access and read the text of this e-book on screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereinafter invented, without the express written permission of HarperCollins.
Source ISBN: 9780008742850
eBook Edition © January 2026 ISBN: 9780008742874
Version: 2026-02-02
OceanofPDF.com

Note to Readers
This ebook contains the following accessibility features which, if supported by your device, can be accessed via your ereader/accessibility settings:
Change of font size and line height
Change of background and font colours
Change of font
Change justification
Text to speech
Page numbers taken from the following print edition: ISBN 9780008742850
Certain portions of text this ebook are set in a specific font type to make it easier to distinguish between the different types of content in the book. It may not be possible to change the font for these pieces of text.
OceanofPDF.com

Contents
Cover
Title Page
Copyright
Note to Readers
The Forever Night
K
The Bookshop’s Records
The First Trip
The Decline
The Second Trip
Indirect Memories
The Third Trip
The Memory Bookshop
Author’s Note
About the Author
About the Publisher
OceanofPDF.com

About the Publisher
Australia
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd.
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia
www.harpercollins.com.au
Canada
HarperCollins Canada
Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower
22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor
Toronto, Ontario M5H 4E3, Canada
www.harpercollins.ca
India
HarperCollins India
4th Floor, Tower A, Building No. 10, DLF Cyber City,
DLF Phase II, Gurugram, Haryana - 122002
www.harpercollins.co.in
New Zealand
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive
Rosedale 0632
Auckland, New Zealand
www.harpercollins.co.nz
United Kingdom
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
1 London Bridge Street
London SE1 9GF, UK
www.harpercollins.co.uk
United States
HarperCollins Publishers Inc.
195 Broadway
New York, NY 10007
www.harpercollins.com
Dublin
HarperCollinsPublishers
Macken House, 39/40 Mayor Street Upper
Dublin 1
D01 C9W8, Ireland
www.harpercollins.co.uk
OceanofPDF.com

About the Author
SONG YU-JEONG
was born in Ansan, Korea, and grew up in the nearby city of Suwon. Her debut novel
The Memory Bookshop
became a sensation in Korea after captivating readers online. Popular demand on the crowdfunding platform Tumblbug led to the book being self-published, before it was picked up by Dasan Books. The novel has since been translated into fourteen languages and is being published around the world. Song Yu-jeong moved back to her birthplace, Ansan, where she now spends her time writing.
SHANNA TAN
is a literary translator working from Korean, Chinese and Japanese into English. Her translations include the bestselling
Welcome to the Hyunam-dong Bookshop
by Hwang Bo-reum. Born and raised in Singapore, she is currently spending some time in Bangkok.
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com