OceanofPDF.com

Recipe Index
“A great introduction to cultures is their cuisine. It not only reflects
their evolution, but also their beliefs and traditions.”
~ Vikas Khanna
Drinks
Lakshmi’s Special Cardamom Tea
Ingredients
4 Green whole cardamom pods
1 Cinnamon stick
1 TBPS Darjeeling or other black loose-leaf tea
2 Black whole peppercorns
1 TBPS Freshly grated ginger
4 Cloves
3 cups water
½ cup Milk (optional)
Sugar or honey to taste (optional)
Method
Grind spices in a mortar and pestle or electric spice grinder.
Combine all the ingredients (except milk and sweetener) in a pot and put on heat for a half hour.
Add milk if desired and boil another few minutes.
Strain and serve in your favorite tea cup, adding sugar and honey to your desired taste.
Madras Coffee
Ingredients
South Indian coffee filter
½ Cup boiling water
2 TBSP ground coffee
Hot milk to taste
Sugar to taste
Method
Add the ground coffee to the upper compartment of the coffee filter, spreading it with a spoon and then pressing down gently with the plunger.
Add the boiling water, cover with the lid and let the coffee percolate into the lower vessel for about 15 to 20 minutes.
For each serving, add about 2 to 3 TBPS (depending on how strong you prefer your coffee) of the decoction, sugar to taste, and hot milk.
The traditional serving vessel is known as the davara, consisting of a tumbler and saucer. The contents are poured back and forth between the tumbler and saucer to create a frothy coffee texture and release the aroma.
Main Dishes & Light Bites
Aval Upma
Ingredients
Aval
2 Cups of aval (flattened rice)
1 Medium onion, chopped
1 TSP of Ginger, grated
2 Green chilies (optional)
Salt to taste
Lemon juice (fresh, optional)
Temper
1 to 2 TBSP of Ghee (or oil)
1 to 2 Sprig(s) of curry leaves
½ TSP of Mustard seeds
3 TBSP of Roasted peanuts (preferable, otherwise other nuts can be used)
1 TSP Chana dal
¼ TSP of Turmeric powder
Method
Thoroughly rinse aval, drain out the water and set aside.
Heat the ghee and fry the peanuts until golden in hue. Remove for garnish later.
In the same pan, add in the chana dal and mustard seeds, frying until the dal is golden in color.
Sauté the onions, green chilies, curry leaves and ginger until the onions are translucent.
Add in the turmeric powder and salt. If the contents are dry, add a splash of water.
Add in the aval and still well. Then cover and cook on low heat until steamed.
To serve, add to a serving bowl and top with the roasted peanuts.
Aloo Gobi
Ingredients
2 or 3 TBSP of Ghee or oil
2 Medium potatoes (aloo), peeled, and cubed
2 Cups of cauliflower (gobi) florets, chopped
1 Medium onion, finely chopped
½ Inch of ginger, peeled and grated
3 Garlic cloves, peeled and minced
1 Green chili (optional)
Salt to taste
½ TSP Cumin seeds
¼ TSP of Turmeric powder
1 TSP of Coriander powder
½ TSP of Dried mango powder (amchur, optional)
Method
In a pan, heat ghee and add in cumin seeds.
Once the seeds sizzle, add in ginger, garlic and sauté for up to a minute.
Add in onions until translucent and not browned.
Then add in potatoes and green chili. Stir for a few minutes, then cover and continue to cook on low to medium heat until about half done. You can add in a bit of water to help the potatoes cook faster.
Add in the cauliflower and cook for a few minutes.
Add in the turmeric and coriander powder. Mix well, then add in 2 TBPS of water.
Cover and cook over low to medium heat until both the potatoes and cauliflower are tender.
Add in salt and cook a few more minutes on a lower flame.
At the end, sprinkle the dried mango powder and serve along rice or roti.
Punjabi Dal (Lentils) Tadka
Ingredients
1 Cup Toor dal or moong dal
3 Cups water
¼ TSP Turmeric powder
Salt to taste
Tempering (Tadka)
1 Medium onion, finely chopped
2 to 3 Green chilies, slit
1 TBSP Freshly grated ginger
4 to 5 Garlic cloves, minced
1 TSP Cumin seeds
2 Medium tomatoes, finely chopped
2 TBSP of Ghee or oil
Garnish (optional)
2 TBSP Fresh coriander leaves, chopped
Method
Wash dal thoroughly and soak for 30 minutes.
Boil the dal with water, turmeric, and a pinch of salt until soft and cooked through (about 20 to 25 minutes).
In a small pan, heat ghee or oil. Add cumin seeds and let them splutter.
Add chopped onions, ginger, and garlic. Sauté until onions turn golden brown.
Add chopped tomatoes. Cook until tomatoes soften and oil separates.
Pour this tempering (or tadka) over the cooked dal and mix well. Simmer for 5 minutes to let flavors combine.
Garnish with fresh coriander leaves and serve hot with rice or roti.
Chicken Biryani
Ingredients
1 Kilogram of chicken pieces
3 ½ Cups basmati rice
½ Kilogram of potatoes (boiled and cut in half)
For the chicken curry:
3 Large onions, sliced
2 ½ Cups of vegetable oil
Paste – blend following:
12 Green chillis
80 Grams of garlic
80 Grams of ginger
Garam masala
1 TSP of Black peppercorns
3 Large sticks of cinnamon
1 TSP of Cloves
4 to 6 Black cardamoms
3 Bay leaves
1 Cumin seeds
Additional ingredients
1 TBSP of Coriander powder
3 Large tomatoes, sliced
250 Grams of fresh yoghurt
½ TSP Nutmeg powder
½ TSP Mace
2 TBSP of Kasuri methi
For the rice
3 TBSP of Salt
3 TSP of Caraway seeds
2 Bay leaves
1 Large stock of cinnamon
6 Cloves
¼ TSP of Black peppercorns
2 Black cardamoms
5 Liters of water
1 TSP of Saffron soaked in ¼ cup of hot water
Couple of drops of kewra (optional)
Method
Chicken curry:
Brown the onions till golden brown in the oil.
Take out the onions out of the oil and add the chicken pieces to the same oil.
Then add the paste, coriander powder and the garam masala ingredients.
Stir fry for about 3 to 5 minutes, then cover and let cook in its own water on low heat.
When the chicken is half cooked, add in the tomatoes and cover. Let it cook for another five minutes.
When the tomatoes are cooked, then add in the fried onions, crushing the onions with your hands as you add them..
Add in the yoghurt, nutmeg, javitri and cook for another 2 minutes.
The curry is ready when the consistency still looks a bit runny.
Rice
Boil water with the rice and add the ingredients, except for the saffron and the kewra.
Assembly of biryani
In a large vessel, cover the bottom with 1 ½ cup of the boiled rice.
Then layer with the boiled potato halves.
Pour the chicken curry on the potatoes.
Sprinkle the kasuri methi over the curry.
Add the remaining rice on top.
Then pour the saffron water and kewra over the rice.
Cover tightly and cook till the chicken is done.
Dish up and serve.
Chicken Tikka Masala
Ingredients
Marinade
2 LBS of Bones chicken thighs, cubed
½ Cup of Greek yoghurt
½ TSP of Kashmiri red chili powder
¼ TSP of Ground black pepper
½ TSP of Cumin powder
1 TSP Coriander powder
¼ TSP of Green cardamom powder
¼ TSP of Cloves powder
¼ TSP of Cinnamon powder
1 TBSP of Freshly squeezed lemon juice
Salt to taste
2 to 3 Garlic cloves, grated
1 TBSP of Grated ginger
1 TBSP Oil
Tikka Masala
2 to 3 TBSP of Ghee or oil
2 Medium onions, chopped
1 Green chili, sliced long and deseeded (optional)
2 to 3 Garlic cloves, grated
1 TBSP of Grated ginger
½ TSP of Kashmiri red chili powder
1 TBSP of Coriander powder
1 TSP of Cumin powder
14 oz Can, no salt added peeled tomatoes
1 Cup of Hot water
½ Cup of Heavy cream, plus 2 TBSP for garnish
Method
Marinate Chicken
In a large bowl, put in cubed chicken after washing and drying off excess moisture with a paper towel. Gently prick chicken with a fork in one or two areas.
Combine all remaining marinade ingredients into a bowl and mix with chicken cubes thoroughly.
Cover the bowl and place in the fridge for a least 3 hours, and best if overnight.
Tikka Masala
Heat 1 TBSP of ghee in a pan over medium heat and add in onions when ghee is hot, sprinkling 1 TSP of salt. Sauté until the onions turn a deep golden, almost brown.
Add in garlic, ginger and green chili, continue to sauté for about a minute.
Reduce the heat to low and add in the dry spices and stir in.
Then add the tomatoes and cook on medium heat until the sauce thickens.
Pour in the cup of hot water, mix and bring to a rolling boil. Then cover and allow to thicken for 10 to 12 minutes.
Chicken Tikka Masala
In a separate pan, heat up 1 TBSP of ghee on medium heat. Add in the marinated chicken and sauté for a few minutes on each side and until almost browning / charred texture. (This can separately be
prepared on a grill for a more smokey flavor).
For the tikka masala, add in the cream and stir well, then add in the grilled chicken and cook up to 5 minutes, ensuring the chicken is soft and tender and the gravy is a thick consistency.
Taste test for salt, then transfer to a serving bowl and add the cream garnish before serving with rice, or naan.
Puri
Ingredients
1 Cup of atta (wheat flour)
1 TSP of Ghee or oil
½ TSP of Carom seed (ajwain, optional)
¼ Cup of water
Pinch of salt
Oil (specific to deep frying)
Method
Mix atta, ajwain, and salt in a large mixing bowl.
Slowly add in water and knead to create a stiff dough.
Add in the 1 TSP of oil and form a smooth ball. Keep dough covered and to the side. The dough should not be allowed to rest for too long, otherwise the puris will not come out puffy.
Divide into even portions (about eight small balls).
Heat up oil, dropping in a small test dough to check that it is hot enough.
Roll the dough balls into moderately thick circles.
Slide in the puris. Let the puris rise slightly, then using a perforated ladle, gently press the puri down to help it puff up.
Flip so that the other side also has a golden, crisp texture.
Remove and place on a few layered paper towels to absorb the excess oil. Do not stack.
Serve with chole, aloo gobi, or other side dish.
Coconut Chutney
Ingredients
1 Cup of grated coconut
2 TBSP of Roasted split chana dal
1 or 2 Cloves of garlic
½ TSP of Cumin powder
1/3 Cup of water
1 Green chili (optional)
Salt to taste
For tempering
1 TSP Ghee or oil
½ TSP Mustard seeds
1 Dried red chili (crushed gently, optional)
1 Sprig of curry leaves
Method
Grind the coconut, garlic, cumin seeds, green chili, salt, roasted chana and water in a blender into a coarse blend. Set aside.
In a pan, heat up the ghee on medium heat and add mustard seeds and dried red chili until the mustard seeds start to pop.
Add in the curry leaves and gently sauté for a minute. Then add to the blended mixture slowly.
Can be served as an accompaniment to meals like dosa and idli.
Chole
Ingredients
1 Cup Chickpeas (Chole), soaked overnight with a TSP of baking soda
3 Cups water
1 Medium onion, finely chopped
2 Medium tomatoes, finely chopped
2 to 3 Green chilies, slit
1 TBSP Freshly grated ginger
4 to 5 Garlic cloves, minced
1 TSP Cumin seeds
1 TSP Coriander powder
½ TSP Turmeric powder
2 TBSP Ghee or oil
1 Black tea bag (for color)
Salt to taste
Fresh coriander leaves, chopped for garnish (optional)
Method
Drain soaked chickpeas and boil with 3 cups water (about 30–40 minutes). Add the tea bag at the end to add color, then remove after 3 to 4 minutes.
In a small pan, heat ghee or oil. Add cumin seeds and let them splutter.
Add chopped onions, green chilies, ginger, and garlic. Sauté until onions turn golden brown.
Add chopped tomatoes, turmeric, and coriander powder. Cook until tomatoes soften.
Add this masala to the boiled chickpeas, mix well, and simmer 5–10 minutes. Adjust salt.
Garnish with fresh coriander leaves and serve hot with puri.
Dosa
Ingredients
½ Cup of Urad dal
1 to 2 Cups of cold water
1 ½ Cup of basmati rice
2 TBSP of Chana dal
½ TSP of Fenugreek seeds
2 TBPS of Flattened rice
Salt to taste
Ghee or oil, as needed
Method
Rinse the urad dal, chana dal, and fenugreek seeds in enough water at least 4 hours.
Separately, do the same with the rice.
Rinse and soak flattened rise in water for at least 30 minutes.
Drain the above ingredients.
Grind the above ingredients (except rice) until smooth and bubbly, then transfer to a large pot or container.
Separately, blend the rice until smooth and add to the batter.
Mix well and then cover to allow fermenting. Place in a warm place for up to 18 hours until light and bubbly.
To make dosas, portion out the amount of dosa batter you’d like to use and season with salt. Store the remainder in the refrigerator.
Heat a tawa on medium heat. Season with a bit of oil.
When hot, sprinkle a bit of water on the pan and ladle in about ¼ cup of batter. With the bottom of the ladle, quickly spread the batter evenly out, working from the center.
When you see the dosa browning, it is ready to flip. You can add ghee or oil as the dosa turns golden brown in color.
Repeat with remaining batter.
Serve dosas with coconut chutney, sambar and side dishes.
Idli
Ingredients
1 Cup of Urad daal
4 Cups Idli rice
2 TBSP of Fenugreek seeds
2 TBSP of Salt
Method
Thoroughly wash each ingredient, then soak for 3 to 5 hours in separate bowls. Make sure to wash the rice a few times to get the starch out and also for a softer and whiter idli color.
In a wet grinder, grind the soaked fenugreek seeds in water for a few minutes until a fine texture.
Drain the urad dal and grind in same wet grinder, slowly adding the ½ cup of water. Grind for around a half hour, then transfer the mixture into a bowl and set aside.
Drain the rice and the grind for a half hour until smooth, using water as needed to get a smooth texture.
Combine the rice batter with the dal mixture.
Add the salt and allow to ferment for at least 8 hours, if not overnight.
After the fermenting process and when ready to make the idlis, mix the batter again.
Add water in an idli vessel and place on medium heat.
Grease the idli plate and fill with batter, then gently placing the idli plate into the idli vessel.
Steam the idlis for about 6 to 8 minutes, keeping an eye on them to ensure they do not harden.
Remove the plate, leaving to cool for about 5 minutes, before taking out the individual idlis.
Serve the idlis hot, on their own or with sambar.
Jackfruit Curry
Ingredients
1 TBSP of Ghee or olive oil
2 TBSP of Black peppercorns
1 TBSP of Cumin seeds
1 TBSP of Coriander seeds
2 Bay leaves
2 Cloves of garlic, minced
1 TBSP Grated, fresh ginger
1 Diced medium onion
2 Diced medium tomatoes
1 Can of jackfruit (14 oz)
1 Can of coconut milk
1 ½ Cups of stock
1 TSP of Turmeric powder
Salt to taste
Method
In a spice grinder or with a mortar and pestle, gently grind the spices.
In a skillet, heat the ghee over medium heat and then add the ground spices and bay leaves.
After a couple of minutes, add onion and sauté until translucent. After about 5 to 7 minutes, add in the garlic and ginger and cook further for a couple of minutes. Then add in the tomatoes and cook down.
Drain the jackfruit and pull apart with your hands or a fork.
Add into the pan, along with turmeric and salt.
Cook for another 8 to 10 minutes and then add, coconut milk and stock.
After the sauce is thick and creamy (another 10 to 15 minutes), the dish is ready to serve with basmati rice.
Kerala Fish Fry
Ingredients
1 Large Pomfret
½ TBSP Red Chili Powder
1 TBSP Pepper Powder
¼ TSP Turmeric Powder
Salt to taste
2 TBSP Fresh Lemon Juice
1 Sprig of Curry Leaves
1 to 2 TBSP Coconut Oil
2 Fresh Lemon Slices to flavor at end
Onion Slices for garnish
Method
Clean pomfret and make slits on both sides.
Mix the red chili powder, pepper powder, turmeric powder, salt, and lemon juice
together, and then evenly coat the fish with it on both sides. Marinate for 30 minutes.
Heat oil in frying pan, and add curry leaves.
Place the fish carefully and shallow fry (use less oil) over medium heat until charred, then flip and do the same on the flip side.
Once cooked, place on a paper towel to absorb excess oil.
Then squeeze a lemon on top of the fish.
Serve with onion slices and rice.
Mushroom Fry
Ingredients
2 TBSP of Ghee or oil
2 Cups of White mushrooms, sliced
¼ Cup of Raw cashews
1 Small onion, finely chopped
¼ Cup of Unsalted crushed tomatoes or a small tomato, finely chopped or pureed
1 TSP of Garlic paste
1 TSP of Ginger paste
1 Green chili, sliced (optional)
5-7 Curry leaves
½ TSP Cumin seeds
¼ TSP of Red chili powder
½ TSP of Turmeric powder
1 TSP of Garam masala (optional)
Salt to taste
1 TSP of Lemon juice
Method
Soak cashews for 20 minutes, drain and then grind.
In a pan, heat up oil and then add in cumin seeds.
Once the seeds splutter, add in garlic and ginger paste and sauté until aromatic.
Add in onions and chili, frying till onions are brown.
Add in the tomatoes and cook down on medium heat.
Add in the spices (red chili powder, turmeric powder, garam masala), curry leaves and continue cooking for another 5 to 7 minutes.
Add in the mushrooms and ground cashew paste and cook for another 5 minutes.
Before serving, add lemon juice.
Enjoy with rice or roti.
Mutton or Lamb Curry
Ingredients
1 ½ Kilo of Mutton cubes (or leg of lamb, cut into large cubes)
1 Kilo of Onions, sliced
1 TSP of Whole black peppercorns
1 ½ TSP of Coriander seeds
15 Whole red chillis (optional)
1 Garlic pod, with cloves peeled and chopped
3” Piece of ginger, skin peeled
4 Black cardamoms
6 Green cardamoms
4-5 Pieces of cinnamon sticks
Salt to taste
1 Cup of oil
Method
Heat the oil in a large, heavy pan.
Fry the onions until transparent in color.
Make the garlic and ginger into a paste and add after the onions have been fried. Cook until the raw smell disappears.
Add in the meat and fry for about ten minutes.
Add rest of the spices and cook over a slow flame (adding in about ½ cup to 1 cup of water), stirring frequently till the meat is cooked and the gravy has reduced.
Add in the red chilies at the end so that they retain their color.
Serve hot with naan or roti.
Paneer parathas
Ingredients
Dough
2 Cups of Whole wheat flour
Pinch of Salt
1 TBSP Melted ghee
½ Cup Water (more as required)
Stuffing
1 Cup of Grated paneer
2 TBSP of Finely chopped coriander leaves
1 or 2 Cloves, minced (optional)
½ TSP of Roasted cumin powder
½ TSP of Dry ginger powder
Salt to taste
Frying
2 to 3 TBSP of ghee
Method
Dough
Combine flour, salt, ghee in a large bowl, then slowly add water and mix until soft but not sticky.
Let the dough rest for 30 minutes.
Then, knead for another 5 minutes.
Divide the dough into 8 portions.
Stuffing
In another bowl, combine the ingredients for the stuffing.
Divide into 8 portions.
Paratha
Roll dough with rolling pin until a small disc and place in palm. Feel free to use dry flour when rolling out, dusting off any excess, to prevent stickiness.
Place one of the stuffing portions in the center of the disc and pinch the dough closed around the stuffing, sealing the stuffing inside.
Flatten the dough ball, roll gently in dry flour, and create an 8-inch paneer paratha disc. You can dust the rolling pin to assist with rolling and to prevent the dough from sticking.
Place the paratha on a heated tawa or a frying pan and cook one side on medium
heat for a few minutes, then flip and repeat.
Add ghee to the top layer of the paratha and flip to cook that layer.
Do the same to the other layer of the paratha.
After a few minutes, when the paratha starts to turn a golden hue with some light brown spots on each side, remove and place on a plate.
Repeat steps to make up to 8 parathas.
Serve with butter, yoghurt, and pickle.
Papri Chaat (Easy Recipe)
Ingredients
Green chutney
2 Cups of Coriander leaves
1 Raw green mango, pip removed, cut and peeled
1 Cup of mint leaves
2 to 3 Green chilies
¼ Inch of ginger, peeled
1 Lemon, juiced
Salt to taste
Water, as needed
Tamarind chutney
½ Cup of Tamarind paste
½ Cup of Sugar (or jaggery)
½ TSP of Ginger powder
½ TSP of Roasted cumin powder
¼ TSP of Red chili powder
½ TSP of Coriander powder
Salt to taste
Water, as needed
Store-bought crisp papdi
1 Medium Potato, boiled and then chopped into small cubes
1 Can of Chickpeas, washed and drained
½ cup of Greek yoghurt or dahi
1 TBSP of Sugar
½ Cup of Aloo bhujia (e.g., Haldiram’s brand)
½ TSP of Roasted cumin powder
1 or 2 Pinches of red chili powder for decoration
Salt to taste
Method
To make green chutney, add all ingredients into a blender. Blend into a fine thick chutney, adding water as needed.
To make the tamarind chutney, add all ingredients into a blender. Blend into a fine thick chutney, adding water if needed.
Papdi Chaat Assembly – when ready to serve guests to avoid papdi from becoming soggy
In a bowl, beat together the yoghurt and sugar. Add green chutney and tamarind chutney to desired taste.
In a serving dish, place papdi. Top with the potatoes and chickpeas.
Then pour desired amount of the yoghurt blend on top on the papdi, potatoes and chickpeas.
Sprinkle some cumin powder and red chili powder.
Sprinkle a generous amount of aloo bujia
Ready to serve.
Rajma
Ingredients
1 Cup of Dried red kidney beans (or use canned 15-oz cans of red kidney beans)
2 TBSP of Oil (or ghee)
½ TSP of Cumin seeds
½ TSP of Turmeric powder
½ TSP of Coriander powder
1 Finely chopped onion
1 TSP Grated garlic cloves
1 TSP Grated ginger clove
1 or 2 Green chillis, deseeded and finely chopped (optional)
2 or 3 Chopped tomatoes (or 14-oz can of tomatoes, no salt added)
Salt to taste
Chopped coriander leaves and julienned ginger (optional garnish)
Method
Overnight, soak the dried red kidney beans. (Skip if using canned beans)
With 1 ½ cups of water, put in a pressure cooker and heat on medium heat until the pressure cooker whistles 3 times and the beans have softened but holding its shape.
(Please be mindful of pressure cooker safety and follow instructions of use).
In a pot, heat oil or ghee and add in the cumin seeds, turmeric powder, and coriander powder. Cook for a few minutes on medium heat until the aromatics are released.
Add in the onions and green chillis (if desired), and sauté until golden brown.
Add in the grated ginger and garlic and sauté for a couple of minutes.
Add in the tomatos and cook until this thickens.
Add in the red kidney beans with the water, mix, and continue cooking for another 15 minutes.
To thicken the gravy, mash some of the red kidney beans with the ladle against the pot during the cooking process using the side of the pot.
Add in salt to taste.
Garnish with chopped coriander leaves and julienned ginger (if desired) and serve hot with basmati rice.
Sambar
Ingredients
Dal
1 Cup of Toor dal, washed and rinsed
2 Cups of Water
1 TBSP of Tamarind paste
½ TSP of Turmeric powder
Salt to taste
1 Medium onion, diced
1 Large tomato, diced
1 Medium carrot, diced
2 to 3 Vegetable drumsticks, cut into 8 to 10 pieces
1 Green chili (optional)
Sambar and Sambar Powder
1 TBSP of Ghee or oil
1 TBSP of Coriander seeds
1 TBSP of Chana dal
1 TSP of Urad dal
½ TSP of Methi seeds
½ TSP of Cumin seeds
3 to 4 Dried red chilies
Temper
1 TBSP of Ghee or oil
1 Sprig of curry leaves
½ TSP of Mustard seeds
Method
Sambar Powder (alternatively, you can skip this step and use 2 TBSP of readymade powder bought from the store)
Dry roast the red chilies and the dals on low to medium heat until golden.
Add in the coriander seeds and fry for a few minutes. Then remove into a bowl to cool.
Add in methi seeds and coriander seeds and once aromatic, remove and add to same bowl.
Once cool, grind the dry roasted ingredients into a fine powder.
Dal
In a pressure cooker (use with caution and an understanding of how to use the cooker), add the drained toor dal and 2 cups of water and allow to cook on medium heat for 2 to 4 whistles.
Set aside, and once cooled, mash the daal until it has a smooth consistency.
Sambar
In a pot, add 1 TBSP of ghee and cook on medium heat. After it heats up, add in the onion and saute for another minute.
Add in the remaining vegetables and cook for another few minutes.
Add 4 cups of water and once this boils, take ¼ cup of the hot water into a separate bowl. In that bowl, add tamarind paste, mix and set aside.
When the vegetables are al dente, add in the turmeric, sambar powder and salt.
Next, add in the tamarind water.
Continue cooking for a few more minutes, then add the dal and stir into the sambar mixture.
Bring to a boil.
Temper
In a small pan, heat up 1 TBSP of ghee and add in all the temper ingredients except the curry leaves.
Add the curry leaves once the spices pop and cook till the leaves crispen.
Then take the temper and pour it while hot to the sambar.
Serve with rice, idli or dosa.
Vegetable Stew
Ingredients
1 TBSP Ghee or oil
1 Cinnamon stick
2-3 Green cardamon pods
2-3 Cloves
1 Small onion, thinly sliced
1 Small bunch of green beans, chopped
1 Small potato, chopped into small cubes
¼ Cup of Green peas (can be frozen)
1 Small carrot, chopped
3-5 Julienned ginger strips
8-10 Cauliflower florets
3-5 Curry leaves
1 Cup of Water
2 Cups of Thinned coconut milk
¼ Cup of Thick coconut milk
1 Green chili, thinly chopped (optional)
Salt to taste
Method
In a large pot, heat up the ghee and sauté the spices (i.e., cinnamon, cardamom, cloves) until it releases an aroma.
Then, add in the onion and cook till translucent but not brown.
Add in the vegetables (beans, peas, carrot, ginger, cauliflower florets,) and sauté for a few minutes.
Add in the water, salt, chili, and curry leaves and combine.
Cover and boil for 5 minutes, then add the thin coconut milk.
Cook for another 5 to 7 minutes, until the vegetables are cooked.
Remove from heat, add in the thick coconut milk and serve with a bowl of rice.
Desserts
Coconut barfi
Ingredients
3 Cups of Coconut, freshly grated
2 Cups of Sugar
½ Cup of Milk
¼ TSP Ground green cardamom
Method
On a medium flame, add the grated coconut, sugar and milk in a large wok.
Mix and continue to stir as the sugar dissolves and the mixture begins to thicken (about 15 to 25 minutes).
The mixture will begin to separate from the wok, at which point, continue to mix so that the mixture starts to come together.
Add in the cardamom powder.
On a greased baking dish or tray or one line with parchment paper, evenly spread the
Allow this to cool and set, then cut into rectangular serving pieces
Serve and enjoy or keep in the fridge for later snacking.
Payasam
Ingredients
2 TBSP Ghee
¾ Cup of Vermicelli (unroasted)
½ Cup of Sugar
½ TSP of Ground whole green cardamom
Pinch of Saffron soaked in 1 TBSP of hot water
4 Cups of Milk
Roasted chopped cashews, as desired
Method
Add the ghee to a pan and heat over a medium flame.
Roast the vermicelli till a lightly golden hue on a low medium flame.
Add milk and boil on same level of heat, occasionally stirring to ensure the vermicelli doesn’t burn at the bottom of the pan.
Add sugar, ground cardamom, and infused saffron water.
Cook down until the payasam thickens, but can still be poured out.
As the payasam cools, it will thicken further. If this will be set aside, cover with
a plastic wrap that touches the top layer of the payasam, so that a thick layer doesn’t form on top.
Serve either as a hot or chilled dish and top with cashews (if desired).
Kulfi
Ingredients
6 to 8 Kulfi molds (alternatively, popsicle molds)
1 Cup of Ground roasted, unsalted nuts (e.g., almonds, pistachios)
1 1/2 Cups of Condensed milk
1 1/2 Cups of Evaporated cardamom milk
Alternatively, you can use plain evaporated milk and add in 3-5 ground green cardamom pods.
1 1/3 Cups of Thickened cream (alternatively, use heavy cream)
Method
Mix all the ingredients (except nuts) together, making sure the mixture is free of any lumps.
Add in nuts and stir. Then fill molds.
Place in freezer and enjoy once frozen.
Mysore Pak
Ingredients
1 Cup of Gram flour
1 ¼ Cup of Sugar
½ Cup of Water
1 Cup of Ghee
Method
Grease a small tray or dish with some ghee (around 1 TBSP).
Sift the gram flour into a large bowl, then repeat.
Divide the flour into 3 small bowls and set aside.
In a deep frying pan, heat ghee on medium heat.
In a separate pot, add water and then sugar heating in medium heat and stirring until viscous and stringy.
Once that consistency is reached and the ghee remains hot on the other burner, add one small bowl of gram flour into the sugar syrup and cook on medium. Stir the flour well.
After this, add in the next bowl and repeat the process and then the last bowl.
Next add in one ladle of hot ghee into the flour mixture. The ghee must sizzle so it is important to make sure the ghee is hot.
Repeat this process until all the ghee is stirred into the flour mixture and has been absorbed.
When the mysore pak mixture looks thick and bubbly, it is done and there is no need to add anymore ghee.
Next transfer the mixture into the greased dish and set aside to cook for 15 minutes.
Once cooled, cut into desired portion sizes.
Serve and store any leftovers in a air tight container at room temperature.
Punjabi Poora
Ingredients
1 Cup of Whole wheat flour
2 TSP of Roughly ground anise or fennel seeds
1/3 Cup of Sugar
¼ TSP of Baking soda
Water, as required
Method
Combine the dry ingredients and mix.
Then, add water as needed to create a thick batter consistency.
On a medium flame, heat a non-stick pan on a medium flame and spread ghee on it.
In the heated pan, pour a batch of the batter and spread it into a circular shape.
Once a golden-brown color from the caramelization of the sugar, flip to the other side adding a bit more ghee.
Once the second side is of a similar color, it is ready to serve.
Rasgulla
Ingredients
Chenna
4 Cups of Whole milk
2 or 3 TBSP of White vinegar or lemon juice
4 Cups of Ice cold water
Cheese cloth
Sugar syrup
4 Cups of Water
4 Green cardamom pods, lightly crushed
1 Cup of White sugar
Method
Chenna
Bring milk to a boil.
Add in vinegar or lemon juice and stir till the milk curdles, switching off the heat.
After a couple of minutes, add in cold water and then drain the curdled milk in a colander lined with a cheese cloth.
Rinse out the acidic flavor and then, tightly squeeze and hand for a few hours. The texture at the end should be crumbly.
Rasgulla balls
Knead the crumbly chenna into a workable dough and then, stop kneading.
Create small balls, about fifteen, and set aside.
Sugar syrup
Boil the sugar, lightly crushed cardamom pods and water in a large pot, until sugar has dissolved.
Once a rolling boil, remove the cardamom pods, add in the balls gently, cover the pot, and cook for about 10 minutes, checking in on them at the 5 minute mark to gently stir the syrup. Avoid disturbing the balls.
After the 10 minutes, remove from the head and keep covered for another 20 minutes.
Check in to see if they’ve doubled in size and then, allow to cool and then chill before serving.
Ras Malai
Ingredients
Chenna
5 Cups of Full fat milk
1 to 2 TBSP of Vinegar
Cheesecloth
Syrup
1 Cup of White sugar
3 Cups of Water
½ TSP of green cardamom powder
Rabri
3 Cups of Full fat milk
1/3 Cup of Sugar
Pinch of saffron
Method
Rabri
Bring milk to boil. Once boiling, add sugar and saffron.
Reduce heat to medium and continue cooking, stirring every couple of minutes.
Keep cooking until reduces to half its quantity and then set aside to cool.
Split into two portions, with one portion to cool at room temperature and the other in the fridge.
Chenna
Bring milk to boil and then switch off.
Add 1 TBSP of vinegar and stir, which should start the curdle process.
If curdling doesn’t happen, switch on stove and cook on low to medium heat until curdling starts.
Once this process begins, add into a cheese cloth over a colander.
Wrap the chena and wash in running water to remove the vinegar taste.
Squeeze out water and hang for 1 hour to drain excess whey.
After an hour, transfer the chenna to a surface and knead into a smooth ball. Then, split into 12 balls and flatten into discs.
Sugar syrup
Bring water to boil, then add in the sugar until it dissolves. Then add in the cardamom powder.
Add in the discs and cook for 10 minutes on a medium to high heat.
Turn the stove off and remove the pot from the heat, cover with a lid, and allow to soak in the syrup for 20 minutes.
Rasmalai
Remove the discs and gently squeeze out excess syrup.
Add this to the warm portion of the rabri. Allow to rest for 4 hours.
When read to serve, add in chilled rabri.
Garnish with chopped nuts (e.g., pistachios).
Rava Kesari Bhath
Ingredients
¼ Cup of Ghee
¼ Cup of Semolina
1 Cup of Water
¼ to ½ Cup of Sugar depending on desired sweetness
Pinch of Saffron soaked in 1 TBSP of boiling water
¼ TSP of Ground green cardamom powder
Roasted Cashews and raisins for garnish (optional)
Method
Heat ghee on medium flame in a saucepan and once heated, add in the semolina. Roast until a golden-brown in color.
Add in water to the roasted semolina and boil, then reduce heat to a low flame and continue to stir.
Add in sugar, saffron water, and ground green cardamom powder, continuing to stir until the mixture begins to separate from pan.
Serve hot or cold, garnishing with nuts and raisins or strands of saffron.
Shrikand
Ingredients
2 Cups of Greek yoghurt
Pinch of Saffron strands
3 Cardamom seeds, ground
¼ Cup of Powdered sugar
2 to 3 TBSP Chopped nuts, if desired (e.g., roasted almonds, pistachios, etc.)
Method
Strain yoghurt in a cheese cloth, squeezing out any whey, and then wrap the cloth and hang for ½ hour.
Place the hung yoghurt in cheese cloth in a strainer over a large bowl. Then place a heavy object to help drain away the rest of the liquid out into the bowl below, ensuring the yoghurt doesn’t contact the liquid in the bowl below.
Transfer the bowl into the fridge overnight.
Soak the saffron in 1 TBSP of hot water for a few minutes.
Add saffron, powdered sugar and ground cardamom to the yoghurt and whisk, until smooth.
Place in fridge to chill, then add chopped nuts before serving.
Unniyappam
Ingredients
1 Cup of Rice flour
1 Medium-sized banana, mashed
1 ½ TBSP of Semolina flour
¾ Cup of Jaggery
1/2 TSP Black sesame seeds
1 TBSP Ghee
2 TBSP Grated coconut
3 TSP Ground green cardamom powder
1/2 Cup of Water (or as needed) and 2 TBPS of water
¼ TSP of Baking soda
Pinch of salt
Oil or Ghee for frying
Method
Combine rice flour, banana, baking soda, salt, and ground green cardamom powder in a bowl. Then add in water to make a smooth batter.
In a saucepan, dissolve jaggery in 2 TBSP of water on medium heat until thick consistency.
Cool jaggery syrup and then add to batter made earlier, mixing until a thick batter consistency.
In a small saucepan, heat up 1 TBSP of ghee and roast the grated coconut until golden brown.
Add golden brown grated coconut into the batter along with the black sesame seeds.
In an appe pan, pour oil or ghee halfway into each mould in the appe pan.
When oil or ghee is hot, spoon in batter and cook on one side. Flip and brown the other side and then remove with a toothpick.
Place on paper towels. Serve hot or cold.
OceanofPDF.com

For my James,
who never stops believing in me and
inspiring me to be a better version of myself.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 1 – Pride or Mada
“Comparison is the thief of joy.”
~ President Theordore Roosevelt
Before the sun rises in a small village near Idukki, Lakshmi tends to the wood fire she’s started so she can make a large batch of rice for the day’s meal. The rice will feed her father, brother, cousin-brother, mother and grandmother, covering their two meals of the day: breakfast and dinner. Dinner is usually accompanied with lentils or a small vegetable dish. With her small hands, Lakshmi then sweeps the two-room house, before heading out to the village well to gather the day’s water ration.
On her way back, she would have just enough time for herself to run out into the field of flowers. She sits there for just fifteen or twenty minutes and pulls out a scrap of paper and a pencil from her worn crossbody satchel to sketch the flowers surrounding her. She loves to create pictures of her surroundings on whatever scrap paper she can find. The dew on the flowers glisten as they are met with the sun’s warm, morning rays. Sometimes, Lakshmi would dry the petals of the grand lilac Gangalee flowers, crush them to create pigmented water, and then with her tiny fingers paint the vibrant purple petals, bringing the blossoms alive in her drawings. The mighty Gangalee flower stretches to about the size of her small palm with large boat-shaped petals layered around in a saucer shape, centered by a bright yellow stamen.
If her parents hadn’t chosen Lakshmi as her name, she was assured that her mother would have called her Gangalee for she adored the flowers. In the springtime, the fields would be covered in these glorious blooms and bees would feast on its delicious pollen, creating an aromatic honey notable to the region. Despite its beauty and allure, the Gangalee seeds were
toxic to humans and animals. Gangalee was truly a unique godly creation adorning this small village on the outskirts of Idukki hills; so gentle in appearance, but potentially deadly to the unsuspecting.
Once home, she made sure that all her chores were done before her father, younger brother, and cousin-brother were up. Her father happened to be there that morning. Usually, he spent most of his time on the road transporting scrap metal wherever the job required him to go. Her brother and cousin-brother, both 12 years old at the time, would head out to school as they did every morning. Lakshmi’s parents could only afford to send two of the children to school. When her aunt and uncle died in a bus accident the year before, her parents made the decision to send the boys over her. It was an easy and logical decision for them. She was 14 years old at the time and would be of marriageable age in a year. She was slender, stunning, but most of all, had the desired fair complexion. When she was born, her parents named her Lakshmi, not only the revered Goddess of Prosperity, but because the Goddess herself was thought to have emerged out of a churning ocean of milk. Her name could not have been more fitting in their minds.
It made Lakshmi very sad when her parents told her she would no longer attend school. She was a bright student, always eagerly reading books, writing stories and illustrating them with her drawings. She loved learning about different subjects, with history being one of her favorite subjects. She could spend hours studying and reading if given the opportunity.
Her grandmother was the only one who ever seemed to notice her love for books and learning. She had tried hard to convince Lakshmi’s parents to sacrifice them spending money on her medication so that Lakshmi could finish at least 10
th
class but to no avail. Lakshmi’s parents saw no point in creating a learned
girl from a small, indistinct village, in the middle of Kerala. Besides, who would want to marry a girl more educated than the groom?
Soon after Lakshmi dropped out of school, her mother, Devi, started taking her to work with her on the cardamom estate perched on the hills of Idukki. Devi had worked there all her life. She joined her mother there when she was just 10 or 11 years old, never having had the opportunity to go to school herself either. She was now in her mid-30s and couldn’t read or write very well anymore. She could, however, expertly select which pods to pluck during harvesting and the estate owner highly regarded her talent and work ethic around this. Devi was proud of this talent and had risen in the ranks, where she would train other women on the Idukki Eco Farm estate to do the same. With her skills, the estate produced some of the most fragrant, citrusy pods that were highly sought after in the spice markets around the world.
Early, every morning, Lakshmi would sit in a dingy, open-air pickup that would come to collect her, her mother and a number of the village ladies. The driver would turn on the local Malayalam radio station blasting the latest movie songs as they traversed up the hills to the estate. The women would laugh and gossip as the truck would veer through the windy roads covered on either side with luscious palms and flora. What Lakshmi didn’t realize at the time was the nostalgia she would feel years later when she would reminiscence about these days. At a future time, she would look back fondly and remember the air and how sweet it would smell, but also the sticky feeling as her linen clothes clung to her body in the heat as they would ride to the plantation through the dense greenery.
Lakshmi missed going to school, but she also enjoyed the time she spent with the women at the back of the pick-up truck.
She especially loved the everyday gossip. The story of that one girl of the village with loose morals. Why Shanta couldn’t get pregnant. Whose mother-in-law won the
wickedest witch to put it politely
title. She also took pleasure from her time toiling away at the plantation alongside her mother. There were a few other younger girls worming there alongside their mothers as well. In fact, generations of women had been employed here, chattering away to pass time as they plucked and sorted the best cardamom pods. Nothing ever changed here – women married very young, giving birth as teens, and continuing on as day laborers at estates like these.
The Idukki Eco Farm, however, was the best employer in the region for this unskilled agricultural job. Every year the inspectors would visit the estate to ensure the practices adhered with international guidelines. Without fail, the inspectors always gave their seal of approval and the estate proudly stamped “Fair trade” on their product.
The estate owners truly deserved the rating and never needed to grease the palms of the inspectors as other employers were known to do. They had always been equitable and generous employers in the community. For generations now, they continued to pay fair wages and that way, they kept a loyal crop of workers which gave them a competitive advantage in the market. It was one of the best places to work in the area and Devi was very pleased to have secured a spot for her daughter. In Devi’s mind, it would make her more marketable to potential grooms when she became of marriageable age over the next year. Survival was core to the villagers and having job security at the Idukki Eco Farm was a valuable asset to have.
On the plantation, the owners had built a grand multigenerational chalet style home. Every Sunday afternoon, the young girl laborers were invited to join the youngest child of
the estate owners on the patio for tea parties. The heiress would dress up in elegant western dresses and sit tall in a wicker chair near the lily pond, shaded by the large awning of the chalet. Five or so of the village girls would sit on the ground in front of her, dressed in their navy salwar and a matching kameez embroidered with “Idukki Eco Farm” stitching in white on the front pocket. They marveled with wide eyes at Ms. Kanika’s fancy chiffon, taffeta or silk dresses that she would acquire on shopping trips to Kochi, Bombay or when in the Middle East.
One afternoon, Ms. Kanika was dressed in a rose pink chiffon frock. Her dark brown hair tied back in a ponytail held together with a matching ribbon. Her eyes were a beautiful dark green hazel, and her soft blush lips complemented her unblemished fair skin.
“Aya, aaaaya,” Ms. Kanika would call out to her maid. “Time for tea and shortbread biscuits. Aaaya, where are you? My friends and I are waiting.”
A few moments later, Mamta came out with a large tray of freshly brewed cardamon tea with a punch of the ground spice lingering in the air. These afternoon teas were always a treat that Lakshmi and the girls looked forward to, especially after spending the week harvesting crop in the fields. It wasn’t clear if the afternoon teas were held so that Ms. Kanika had company. She did seem lonely as the only daughter of the household.
Unlike her much older brothers, Hari and Rattan, she wasn’t allowed to play outside. Her mother was very strict around Kanika’s beauty regiment and an undesirable tan was out of the question. The village girls never really saw any of Ms. Kanika’s friends come over to the house, but they never questioned it either. They were just glad for this weekly luxury afforded to them as lowly village girls. At home, they would receive just food
scraps of what was left-over after their grandfathers, fathers, brothers, and other male relatives ate.
Mamta poured the freshly brewed tea out of the floral bone China tea pot imported from England into one elegant cup decorated with English roses for Ms. Kanika. She then poured the remaining tea into steel cups for the village girls whose calloused hands were not suited for the dainty tea ware. Each of the girls were allowed as many soft, buttery biscuits as they wanted until gone.
When the girls were a bit younger, they would gather around Ms. Kanika over tea, munching away on cookies while Ms. Kanika enlightened them about Barbie dolls and cartoons. But as the girls matured, the conversation matured with Ms. Kanika sharing the plot of young British teenage girls at Malory Towers or the latest gossip at Ms. Kanika’s private English curriculum school.
All sorts of taboo subjects would be discussed under the awning of Ms. Kanika’s family home. Did the girls know that they should be getting their periods already or soon? Ms. Kanika was expecting hers any day now. In fact, her own mother had told her that she had gotten it around her age and so Ms. Kanika should expect the same.  As Ms. Kanika clambered on, the girls didn’t even know what she spoke of as she described how their bodies were changing, why their chests would grow into two bulbous lumps that men would go dizzy over, and how the girls themselves would transform into young women just like their own mothers once did. Until the mostly one-sided conversations with Ms. Kanika, the girls had never quite realized they were slowly becoming young women. They never even talked about these things amongst themselves. But when could they? When rushing to get chores done at home? Or while on their fields when working side by side their mothers?
~
One day on the way to work, Lakshmi’s ears were burning with chatter directed at her. She was two weeks away from her fifteenth birthday and she had come into womanhood beautifully. Unlike late bloomers, she had been endowed with much more than had been expected and early on. She stood in sharp contrast to her own mother who stood a flat five foot tall and was thin and unshapely as a matchstick at thirty-five years young.
On the other hand, Lakshmi towered over her by at least four inches and had developed beautiful breasts and shapely hips. In her salwar kameez, the outline of her perfectly slender frame would tease the village men as she walked to and from the water well in the early mornings before her work day began at the Idukki Eco Farm. Their shameless eyes would dance all over her comely, youthful body and they would salivate over her gorgeously, thick locks tied in a perfect braid as it cascaded down her spine. As she walked to the well and back every morning, she could feel their lewd thoughts penetrate her with their dirty stares. These were men she had grown up in front. Men she called uncle or brother.
“You need to get her married soon, Devi,” the women chirped at Lakshmi’s mother.
“She cannot be a burden to your household any longer. And look how beautiful she is with her pure milk skin. Plump, delicious. Her fruit is ripe and it is a good time for her to be wed. Any longer and she’ll be a dried-up mango,” said another as she looked Lakshmi up and down.
“Don’t wait till she is too old like Aditya’s daughter,” the lady with the crow’s feet and tightly tied bun added.
“Hahn, Hahn. I remember. So conceited her mother was. Such a beautiful, fair and tall girl with thick black hair. Just beaming with big breasts, tight bum, just like Lakshmi,” a thinly lipped woman responded laser focused on Aditya’s physicality.
“Didn’t get married till twenty-five and to that pauper’s son, Anil. No one wanted her then – chi, chi, chi,” the lady with the crow’s feet and tightly tied bun continued on with a grimace on her face.
“Have you seen her husband? A miner and his face dark as the iron from the quarry. Have you seen their children – two dirty little rascal girls. She ruined their futures too,” the thinly lipped woman couldn’t stop herself.
“Milk and dirt. No wonder her babies came out looking like monkeys,” the first woman sneeringly added.
And as the conversation continued disparaging the failed women of the village, Lakshmi’s mind began to wander as she glanced into the lush, green hills blanketed in the morning mist. The air was so fresh and crisp that every time she breathed in, her whole body felt revitalized. And as the day progressed, the morning mist slowly and silently lifted, opening the way for the sky so the sun shone through brightly.
Lakshmi thought about her future as a fifteen-year-old woman. She contemplated what it meant to be of marriageable age. Was she ready for her own family? A family that she would walk to the well in the morning for to get the day’s water ration. To cook batches of rice for. To tidy the house for.
Even though she had done this routine all her life, it was still the only dream that Lakshmi knew she could have. It was the same aspiration of her mother, her mother’s mother, and her mother before then. Each woman was married off to young men from the village or surrounding areas. Like Lakshmi was presently,
these women had worked the cardamom fields from dawn to dusk, chattering away with other women and sharing similar stories. This was their dream and now it was Lakshmi’s.
She definitely didn’t want to end up like Aditya’s daughter. She didn’t want to bring shame to her very proud mother and family. Plus, she didn’t want to have dirty children that looked like monkeys. She asked Goddess Lakshmi to forgive her for saying such things, but to bless her so she would not have to suffer that fate.
Lakshmi also understood her responsibilities as her parents’ only daughter very well. She was grateful for having been born a golden fair hue so that her mother never had to hear the damnation of the villagers for birthing a dark child. They had been so cruel to Kali. “Her mother named her right, Kali,” they would say and the village children would tease the dark-skinned girl. Yet, Kali had the most captivating eyes with the thickest of eyelashes that were lost in the shadow of her skin tone. And not knowing anything else for herself, Lakshmi prayed fervently to the Goddess who she was named after, asking the deity to bless her with a husband within that year. A husband so fantastic that all the village women’s jaws would drop to the ground with jealousy. Instead of insults, her family would need to fend of constant praises disguising their envy.
~
Lakshmi’s dainty beauty was well-known across the village and as she blossomed into that young woman, she inadvertently became the center of every mother’s desire. A rare lotus flower that had bloomed in the lowest echelons of Kerala society.
“Goddess Lakshmi brought me herself to me when you were born,” Lakshmi’s mother would croon as she helped me braid
my hair. “Every child before you would die in my womb within the first 8 weeks. Then Her Mata Rani blessed me with you, my beautiful, golden child. Not long after, Her All Mighty showered us with Dhruv. You are destined for greatness, my diamond.” As she said this, she pressed her finger on her lower eyeline heavy in kohl and transported the black spot behind my left ear to ward off the evil eye.
Laksmi’s mother lived for society and its ideals. She felt redeemed as a village woman following the births of her two children. Until then, she was the subject of mockery and ensured the brunt of insults for having multiple miscarriages. She reached a desperate point in her life and sought out spiritual remedies to help her cope. She did pujas, fasts, drank potions prescribed by the village mystic, and even went so far as to drank a thimble of cow’s urine under a full moon for 3 months before Lakshmi was finally conceived under the mystic’s guidance. She was happy not to have to hear the cackle of judgement any longer.
“Why did Arvind marry such a flat-chested woman? No figure. No children,” a village woman would croak.
“Do you remember Meenakshi’s girl? What a beauty with those womanly curves. Arvind’s mother was such a fool to reject that proposal. Now Meenakshi has five strapping grandsons now. Not one daughter,” another chimed in.
After finally reaching motherhood, Lakshmi’s mother finally felt like a complete and worthy woman.
~
The village was small and located on the outskirts of Idukki’s green hills endowed with cardamom and tea estates. Most everyone in the village knew one another for generations now.
Not many had left this close-knit community, except those with the means to do so. When the more well-off left for a better life, they never returned to invest their fortune into the village’s growth.
At the lowest echelon of society, you had those responsible for collecting human excrement from each home in baskets to take far away. Generation after generation, these families served the village as the clandestine sewer system delaying the need for plumbing infrastructure. When passing a dalit, no one would acknowledge their existence. Their caste lived far away from the village to keep their filthy existence away from the civilized classes. The poor souls were stuck in their karmic catch-22. They were branded for life from the day they were born as untouchable. They crept in the shadows taking care of the excrement that couldn’t be differentiated no matter whether you hailed from the priest class or came from their lowly class. Yet, this division was acceptable and once a dalit, always a dalit.
Above the dalits, came the caste to which Lakshmi and her family belonged to. The laboring class. The had various occupations, but the majority of them worked in the nearby quarries, farms, or for the trucking businesses that transported scrap or other such cargo. Rarely did one climb the ladder into the next rung on society’s ladder, but this had been possible marriage or an entrepreneurial opportunity. Most were content with this fate. Unlike the untouchables, they were afforded at least some respect and pride in the village.
Next, came the tradesmen. They had specialized skills and bargained for the best prices for goods and services offered in the village market. Their opinion mattered considerably to the village council and that in itself, deserved a certain elevated level of respect. If you were born into this class, you were easily given access to luxury and deference. The tradesmen
had spacious homes and for the wealthier of the lot, this meant household help. With their wealth and prestige, came influence in all matters to be considered, whether with regard to morality, lawfulness, or equity. A quiet whisper and some grease from a tradesman could easily change the otherwise seemingly unwavering stance of the upper ranking members of the village council.
Finally, the top strata of the village society: the village council and their families. The village council was composed of the most distinguished and wealthiest members. These were individuals born into families with the closest celestial ties. The villagers would lower their heads in unchallenged respect when passing a member or relation of the village council. The were the giants of society and automatically appeared better-looking, better-dressed, better fed and better bred in every way. Within the village council itself, there were layers of influence. Those with priest status and who sat nearest in line to the heavenly gods themselves, were at the very top. Through birth, they had the highest perch in the village and looked down on every other villager. At present, Ramdev’s father sat at the very top of the village council in this little village, nestled outside the Idukki hills.
~
Ramdev, the oldest son of the village elder, was in his early fifties and always dressed in the finest linens and custom-made sandals. His ancestral home was the largest and most luxurious of them all. It sat at a distance from every other family’s home, adding to its prestige. They had their own well to ensure their water remained pure. The house also had a lavish courtyard with a Tulsi plant blessing the center of the home. As with many of the village families, the house had entertained multi-generations
under the one roof. Unlike most village homes, however, they had a separate servants’ quarters for the live-in cook and driver.
The family also had two cows, Dumki and her baby, Chumki. Ramdev always started his day with a glass of fresh milk from the sacred animal and prepared by his wife, Gayatri. The milk was gently heated with a pinch of fragrant saffron, the world’s most expensive spice and jaggery. Many years ago, a tradesman traveling through their village had offered up the spice in return for a favor from Ramdev and after tasting the subtle floral notes, Ramdev made saffron a staple in their home. If Ramdev’s day did not start with a perfectly prepared glass of saffron-infused milk, he would have a terrible toddler-like tantrum. He would then complain that the rest of the day would now be unlucky. If things did go awry that day, Gayatri and the household would have to hear his griping till late into the evening.
Ramdev was born into the finest lineage of the priest class and having been so, acted without humility. If Ramdev wanted something, he only had to point and take. It was his celestial right. Gayatri, his wife, was a stunning young woman in her day and had been sixteen when she was betrothed to Ramdev, who had seen her in the village and demanded his mother he wanted to take her as his wife. Ramdev was enamored by Gayatri’s beauty. Her skin was a light golden hue and her eyes were the color of amber. Like Lakshmi, Gayatri had once held the spot of the most sought-after maiden in the town. Those captivating eyes intrigued the villagers and her peers envied her for it. But today, that fire that once lit up her face and fascinated the villagers, had slowly dulled with time.
Gayatri had been a dutiful wife per society’s standards. Eventually. For a long stretch and tumultuous time, she had trouble conceiving, much like Lakshmi’s mother. She had to bear the constant abuse and taunts from her in-laws and the
villagers. Worst of all, she endured the near nightly beatings of a drunk Ramdev that happened behind closed doors. Everyone in the household knew what was happening, but no one spoke of it. It was acceptable, especially since Gaytri had driven Ramdev into this desperation.
For now, Ramdev’s father had grasp of the village council. Ramdev had feared that he would lose the title and inheritance if Gayatri didn’t bear a son soon. Ramdev would lose everything to his conniving younger brother, Ravi, whose wife had given them not one, but three male heirs. The eldest was Shiva and then two younger twins, Ram and Lakshman all within the first three years of their marriage. Gayatri’s infertility frustrated Ramdev, causing his drunkenness and violence towards Gayatri.
At twenty, Gayatri finally gave birth to their first and only child. And fortunately, it was a son. They named their son after the God of Preservation and the Protector of the Universe, Vishnu. Upon his birth, the family held a lavish celebration in the village and Ramdev blessed every home with sweet shrikand, delicately flavored with the opulent saffron.
Once Vishnu was born, the tone of Ramdev, the household and the village changed. Everyone assumed now with the arrival of the heir, all the beatings would stop. Even Gayatri believed this would be the case and this was true up until Ramdev’s realization that Gayatri couldn’t get pregnant again. Even having secured an heir, Ramdev remained jealous of his brother who had been blessed with multiple sons. Even though everyone had moved on from gossiping about him and Gayatri’s relationship, Ramdev was still stuck in his envious ruminations. The frequency of the beatings diminished, but the intensity was unpredictable. Gayatri, like many of the village women, accepted this behavior from their husbands. Gayatri was just pleased that
she had fulfilled her duty as a wife and woman and the village chatter had shifted away from her now.
~
Being that Vishnu was their only child and the child of the wealthiest family in the village, he was thoroughly spoiled and was never told, “No”. Having been blessed with a son, Ramdev and Gayatri saw no reason not to give him that extra special license to do whatever he wanted. So, as Vishnu grew older, he became more and more entitled and disrespectful. He was nothing like his namesake in form or in action. Nevertheless, the villagers turned a blind eye, which only exacerbated his behavior as he got older.
“Boys will be boys,” the village women would justify when he was younger.
“He’s his mother’s only child. What else would one expect? He’ll grow out of these boyish ways,” another excused.
But as Vishnu became a teenager, he did not grow out of his mean-spirited habits. He only worsened in character. He grew more heartless and colder with age. He formed a gang of bullies that would harass the younger boys. He would leer at the young girls and make unsavory remarks about their bodies. He would even catch small birds, pin them to the tree, and slowly watch them die. He was never reprimanded for any of this behavior, which only further enabled him.
“When he’s married in a few years, you just see, his wife will set him straight,” the village women reasoned.
But his cruelty and unkindness did not sit well with his grandfather as Vishnu grew into a young man. To him, he was Ravana, the devil, in Lord Vishnu’s disguise. He stood in stark contrast to his eldest cousin-bother, Shiva, and this difference
did not go unnoticed. Their grandfather had observed both boys as they grew up before him under the same roof of their sprawling home. Shiva was just four years older than Vishnu, but his personality was calm and respectful. He was a gentleman with full of compassion whilst Vishnu was stubborn and self-serving. When Vishnu and Shiva both attended the village school, Shiva would do everything he could in his power to protect the other children from Vishnu’s attacks.
“Ramdev, your son disappoints me,” Ramdev’s father would say. “Gayatri has raised a tyrant. This is what happens when you marry someone for only their beauty and not from our caste. You can see so clearly now in Vishnu’s breeding. See how well brought up your brother’s children are. A mark of pedigree. Vishnu has to be set straight, otherwise he cannot be in the line of succession for village elder. He is a twisted boy, blinded by our wealth and position in my village. We have a responsibility to our people, Ramdev,” he paused before emphasizing, “A responsibility.”
Ramdev protested, assuring his father that Vishnu would change when the time came, but Ramdev’s father saw the evil in his grandson that Ramdev could not admit to. “No, he cannot stay here any longer,” the village elder silenced Ramdev’s justifications. “He will continue to sully our family’s name and we can no longer hide his inadequacies. He should get a taste for the real world. An old friend of ours owes us a favor. We will send your good-for-nothing son to live with him to Kochi. He will teach him what it takes to become a real man. He has no place here until he is straightened out. Enough now.”
No one could go against the village elder’s decisions. Not even his own son, Ramdev. Ramdev could see that there was no way around this and he had to submit to his father’s decision. His father was so powerful in the village council. He could sway the
other members to change the line of succession from Ramdev to his brother before his death.
“No”, thought Ramdev and stopped his protests. “Father is right, it is best that my boy moves to Kochi. All this evil eye around my handsome son. People are just jealous of him. I’ll let him go. At least he can enjoy his youth before getting stuck here like me. I was just like him when I was younger and I grew out of my old ways. Boys are just like that, but how can Father understand. He’s always loved my good-for-nothing brother and his wife and their three little imps. Look how Father is using my boy against me – he always wanted to pass on his lineage to his favorite son and is just trying to find an excuse to do so now. Just everyone wait and see. My son’s name is going to shine over everyone else’s when my son goes to Kochi – he’ll be a superstar. Then Father will want him to come back to parade him around the village. But by then, he’ll be king of his own fortune in Kochi. Just you see, you old, wicked man.”
~
Within a month of that conversation, arrangements were made to send Vishnu to Kochi to stay with the Iyer family. Kochi – the Queen of the Arabian Sea. Very few had ever left the village at least in the past century, so Vishnu’s departure was indeed a momentous occasion for the villagers no matter how disliked he was. Not many in the village had been to Kochi. Lakshmi’s father, and a handful of male folk, had visited there on very rare occasions in the past to deliver scrap metal or whatever needed to be sent there, but none could afford to stay long enough to enjoy its beauty and intrigue.
Arvind never did understand the allure of the big city and its chaos. He remembered smelling the salt in the seas, hearing the chatter of people and the cacophony of horns being blown
as traffic moved dangerously through the streets of the concrete jungle of vice and greed. He would tell them of all the unique aromas of cuisine that he could not even describe and the sacrilege practice of openly selling and eating meat. He admitted that he didn’t have the opportunity to really experience the true Kochi and didn’t expect to in this lifetime. One thing he did marvel over were the glimpses of luxury. There was such a variety of goods and sky-high buildings that he couldn’t even imagine how they could have been built.
But today, it was Vishnu’s moment as he headed out to Kochi. Unlike Arvind, Vishnu clearly had the means to be a young man there. The family said he was going to join a college program to study computers or business or something only wealthy families had access to. He was going to be an educated man. He was born to the class of the priests and the Gods bestowed such opportunities on people like him. The vast majority of villagers were lucky if they got to 10
th
class.
All the villagers gathered to bid Vishnu farewell and send him with him good wishes. He would travel in the family’s chauffeured car all the way to Kochi. Vishnu’s privileges were on full display that morning.
“Vah. The son of the village elder is going to Kochi. What isn’t possible when you’re born with a silver spoon in your mouth?” the villagers gossiped.
Lakshmi, her family and the other villagers all gathered in the town square to send Vishnu off. All huddled around the lanky pimply man with grease-slicked black hair and styled in western wear. Gayatri was wearing her best silk sari and holding the pooja plate to bless her one and only son ahead of his journey. She waved her hands over the flame of the diya and then placed her palm above his head, blessings him with good wishes of success for his new endeavors and a safe journey.
Vishnu was her pride and joy. Not wanting to cry in front of the whole village, she stood strong fighting back tears. Gayatri had practiced her stoicism over the years. She knew how to conceal her emotions, especially night after night of beatings and hearing how inadequate of a woman she had been. A woman from a lower class who had managed to climb her way into the highest echelon of society. No one knew the pain she endured. No one should ever know any woman’s pain in this village. She only knew that God blessed her at the right time, and despite her delicate condition, Vishnu triumphed in her womb.
And today, he had grown into this tall, handsome man of seventeen years standing so tall in front of her and all these villagers. Never seeing her son for what he really was, Gayatri stood in front of the entire village, proud that her son and not Shiva was getting this opportunity to make it big in the city. Then, she thought, his grandfather would see the extraordinary qualities of her son, who had for too long been trapped by the bounds of this small village.
Vishnu touched his grandfather’s feet, then his father’s, then his mother’s, then, Ravi’s, Shiva’s, Ram’s and Lakshman’s as he took each of his elders’ blessings before departing on his adventure.
“Kochi will be good for him. What fortune has been bestowed upon their boy and his family,” the village women chanted.
“He is young now, but when he comes back, he will as a man of the world. Then, we shall see who he will choose as his bride,” the eager women with daughters who would be of marriageable age by then, chirped.
~
Chapter 2 – Greed or Lobha
“Earth provides enough to satisfy every man's needs, but not every man's greed.”
~ Mahatma Gandhi
Vishnu did not return to the village until a couple of years. Through the chain of gossip from the Cook, to the women at the water well, to the women in the pick-up traveling up the hills of Idukki to the cardamom plantation, the villagers would discuss Vishnu’s great ventures in the big city.
“I hear that Vishnu has been doing well in Kochi. Not just well, but very well,” a big-nosed lady with a large chest tattled away. “He was a topper at the university he went to and has started in a top position at some multinational tech company in Kochi.”
Another added, “I heard he bought not just a car, but also a 3BHK along Marine Drive, overlooking the Arabian Sea.” Many of the villagers had never seen the sea or heard its waves crash against the shore. Somehow, however, they had heard all about Vishnu and the successful executive he had become in Kochi.
“We always knew he was bound for success,” the women said on the ride up to the estate one morning.
“He was bored in this small town and got up to all the tricks that boys do. He was destined for Kochi where he has become a great man,” another pencil thin woman explained.
“Ramdev and Gayatri are truly blessed from the Gods themselves. Wonder if he will return to Kochi to choose his wife or if he’ll find a city girl to match his ambitions,” a woman of a young marriageable daughter coyly inquired.
Lakshmi sat there at the back of the pick-up, the bumps in the road rocking her into a light slumber as she dreamt of being the great Vishnu’s Lakshmi just as in the Ramayan, the holy Hindu scriptures. She was lost in the endless possibilities that could take her from this tiny, boring village of limited opportunity to the big city of possibilities. Over cardamom tea, Kanika madam had told them all about the luxurious stores, trendy clothes, and the hustle and bustle of the big city.
Lakshmi dreamt of Vishnu’s return to the small village and him gallantly sweeping her off her feet and whisking her off to Kochi. She had grown into a young woman of fifteen, her breasts fully formed with complementing hips. As she walked around in the village, all the men feasted on her gorgeous figure and graceful features. Lakshmi prayed hard that her yearning to go to the city would be fulfilled by Goddess Lakshmi, and that when Vishnu came back to their small village, their family would court for her hand in marriage. It felt like a far-off dream as she also knew her place in society among the working class, but a girl could still dream.
Nevertheless, Lakshmi still held closely to this avenue of escape. Kanika would describe the Kochi streets bustling full of people, lit up by lights from morning to late at night, Lakshmi could hear the car horns, see the rickshaws whipsaw through the city, and see herself amongst the pedestrians from all levels of society converging into this magnificent city.
Lakshmi was young and not yet disillusioned, so she dared to dream. No one was being harmed by her doing so and if her dreams did indeed manifest into reality, then all the better. She would listen intently as Kanika madam would describe her shopping expeditions there and Lakshmi marveled at Kanika madam as she was clothed in the most beautiful, imported dresses her mother had bought for her from the top boutiques
lining Mahatma Gandhi Road in Kochi. For special occasions like weddings or Hindu celebrations, Kanika madam would show Lakshmi and the other girls beautifully embroidered saris or Indian dresswear from the top designers.
Lakshmi couldn’t ever remember the name of the boutiques but was in rapture when Kanika madam brought out the delicate fabrics in the whole spectrum of colors. Lakshmi had worn the same salwar kameez outfit every day for the past who knows how long. She had kept exceptional care of the few pairs of clothes she owned and the one pair of shoes she had. Clothes and shoes were meticulously mended so that they could last the longest stretch possible, until nothing could save them from being tossed and replaced.
Lakshmi craved a life like Kanika madam’s and the chance to escape the constant routine she was born into. Her family and her were just better than the untouchables, so at least the upper crust of society didn’t feel disgust when she was in their presence. Yet, Lakshmi wanted more than that life. She wanted a life of privilege, to adorn herself in the latest fashions and mingle with the ritzy socialites in Kochi. She wanted a life like Kanika madam’s.
One morning on the pick-up trust, Lakshmi heard that Vishnu would finally be returning to the village soon. The rumor mill at the well was also turned up on high volume and over the course of a few days, Lakshmi learned that Vishnu was not just coming home, but coming home to find himself a wife to take back to Kochi. Lakshmi knew that if given the chance, she could do more with her life than just repeating the life of her mother in this small village of monotony. The same routine every day suited Devi. She had never sought growth of any kind and contently performed the same duties like clockwork ever since she married Arvind. She took pride in wearing the exact same outfits from
day to day, eating the same bowl of rice twice a day, and working her hands raw at the cardamom estate.
“How does one get out of this situation if one cannot escape this small village?” Lakshmi thought to herself as her eyes lingered across the tranquil scenery as the pick-up drove on. The trees were rustling in the gentle wind and bowed to its southwesterly directly as the sun peeked its golden rays, touching the lichen covering tree bark and the surfaces of rocks.
“Lakshmi, eh, Lakshmi. We’re here. Time to get out of the pick-up. Silly girl. Where is your mind these days? Come, we have to get out of the truck now and into work, madam.” her mother said as she shook her daughter awake.
And snap, Lakshmi was back into her real world. As they walked into the farm, Lakshmi took all the energy she could muster, blocked everything out from her surroundings, and prayed as hard as she could to Goddess Laksmi.
“Please Lakshmi Mata. Please save me from this dull and tedious existence. I know in my heart that I am meant for a greater destiny. The whole village is always speaking of my beauty and the good fortune I brought my family. Vishnu is coming back to the village. May he choose me to be his wife,” Lakshmi prayed deeper than she had ever done before and felt the presence of Goddess Lakshmi in that moment, until she was interrupted.
“Lakshmi, Lakshmi. Your head is in the clouds again. Wake up and hand me the basket,” her annoyed mother interceded as she pulled Lakshmi out of her thoughts and into her work.
~
One morning, there happened to be a lot of commotion at the grandest house in the village. Even before the first birds started chirping, everyone in the household was up and about. The
village elder, Ramdev, Gayatri, his brother, his brother’s wife, Shiva, Shiva’s wife, Shiva’s daughter, and the two newly-wed twin brothers with their brides were up and about. The house was full and preparations underway for Vishnu’s arrival from Kochi. No one but Ramdev had ever traveled the distance to Kochi to see how his son had been doing. Ramdev would come home gloating to the family of Vishnu’s successful executive position and large 3BHK overlooking the Arabian Sea. Ramdev was more than happy to rub all his son’s successes in their faces, especially in his father’s face.
“You were right to have my only son go to Kochi, father. I owe you that. But now we have lost him forever to that city of opportunities. He cannot come back here to take some menial role at this small village. You were right. My boy could not fill your shoes; they are far too small for him. You were right all along, father. Shiva is the right successor here,” Ramdev said, as strutted shamelessly in front of the village elder.
That morning, the Tulsi plant was watered with the first water from the well and prayers sang to usher in a peaceful and joyous return of Ramdev and Gayatri’s only son and pride. Today, Ramdev was feeling especially happy. He drank not one but two glasses of saffron-infused sweetened milk. In honor of his son’s return, the villagers had been invited to gather in the village center to get a glimpse of the young man, now completely transformed and the most eligible bachelor of the village. Vishnu could have the pick of any woman in the village. Ramdev and Gayatri felt bless to be the envy of everyone.
In the kitchen, Cook, under the strict supervision of Gayatri, was packaging the payasam that she prepared very early that morning. The sweet, nutty milk dessert would be distributed to every family in the village to commemorate Vishnu’s return from his adventures in Kochi. For certain packages an invitation was
included to invite eligible young women to a small gathering at the grand house to meet the family and of course, the prospective groom. One of these packages was to be sent to Lakshmi’s house.
Even though Lakshmi came from a class much, much below theirs, Lakshmi’s effortless beauty was the talk of the town. A fair maiden mistakenly placed by the Gods in the house of laborers as a mischievous playful act. Gayatri had consulted the village mystic who had been her confidant during her many misgivings over the years, and the village mystic had provided Gaytri with assurances that an invitation to such a household was not only fine, but in fact, would be the most auspicious match for Vishnu. Given the alignment of the stars on each of their birth charts, such a wife would only increase Vishnu’s good fortunes by ten-folds. With that consent and assurance in hand, Gayatri was determined to have her son marry the most sought-after girl this village had to offer, since, perhaps Gayatri herself. Gayatri was determined to maneuver her son’s affections towards Lakshmi.
~
The villagers gathered in the village center as they saw a motorcade slowly approach. They first saw a pick-up adorned with a garland, which was then followed by a trio of men dressed in marching band attire with one playing drums, another a trumpet, and the last on a clarinet. They blasted tunes, welcoming home the prodigal son of the highest-ranking family in the village. As they watched, the villagers craned their necks but he did not seem to appear at the back of the pick-up or even up front with its driver. Finally, they saw a brand-new Hero Honda car trailing behind the pick-up truck and the band. The villagers’ eyes widened as they gawked at that sleek vehicle as it
came rolling down the rough village road. A group of little boys caught up with the car and ran beside it, pretending to push it forward with their little hands.
“Vah! Vah! How fabulous! What new fortune Vishnu has brought to our small village,” the villagers stared, wide-eyed, as they marveled at the car rolling by. They had only seen such a classy ride in a newspaper ad or on one of those billboard ads painted on the wall of the auto shop. They tried to peek in, but the windows were tinted and they could only make out a silhouette of a man in the driver’s seat.
“That Vishnu was always a risk-taker and look at the wealthy he’s amassed in Kochi,” they sang in unison, knowing that it could only be Vishnu behind that wheel.
The car came to a stop and Vishnu stepped out in a tailored black suit and long purple tie, with matching shoes and an expensive looking watch. He donned washed and neatly set hair that was slicked back with a heavy dollop of gel. He looked like a hero from one of those Tollywood movies. The Allu Arjun of their village. They could see Vishnu’s face plastered on one of those huge billboards ads for Hero Honda painted.
Ramdev and Gayatri proudly met their son in front of the large crowd gathered around, equally impressed and relishing in the envy surrounding them. Gayatri was decked out in one of her fine silk saris and bejeweled from head to town. She had her pooja plate front and center as she blessed her son home, thanking the Gods for his safe return. Her hand swept over the flame of the diya, which was burning on the plate and she ran her warm palm over her son’s head in three successive motions. She then broke a piece of coconut burfi to sweeten her son’s mouth after his tiresome journey to praise his return and to usher in the next dawn of good luck and fortune. Vishnu touched his grandfather’s feet, then his father’s, then his mother’s, his
uncle’s, Shiva’s, and then Ram’s and Lakhan’s out of respect and for their blessings.
The music began and the village folk (except the uninvited untouchables) enjoyed the feast arranged for them to celebrate Vishnu’s arrival. They marveled at the luxurious spread from idli, dosa, sambar, coconut chutney and many more delicacies most of the villagers would only ever have on very special occasions once or maybe twice a year. Today was certainly one of those auspicious moments. It was more fun than the villagers had had in a long time, and was almost as big as the annual fair the village would host, but just without the races, musical numbers, dance competition and other activities.
Around the middle of the mini-festival, the village elder ushered everyone to gather. He first thanked everyone for taking part in the day to celebrate the return of his grandson, even though his grandson was there only for a short leave from his busy new life in Kochi. He went on to explain how today was a very important day, which had been selected by the village mystic. It was important because it had been specially chosen to announce their intent to invite selected young women from eligible families to their grand house in the following days so that Vishnu could select his future wife who would follow him to Kochi.
“Wow! This is unbelievable,” the villagers chanted.
“It is about time. He needs a wife to manage his house and wealth,” a woman inserted into the gossip that buzzed through the villagers.
“I wonder who will be selected. Regardless, she will be a very lucky woman. Her fate will be tied to the family and their riches,” another added.
One by one, the village elder summoned the eligible young women’s father or head of household and handed the payasam with the invitation.
“Father of Lakshmi,” the village elder spoke.
Silence swept across the villagers, who were crowded around the village elder.
Stunned for a brief moment, Devi looked blankly at the faces around her. “Was she hearing that right?” Lakshmi’s mother thought to herself.
“Father of Lakshmi. Mother of Lakshmi. Where are you?” the village elder repeated irritated by the lack of response.
As Arvind was away on one of his jobs, a dumbfounded Devi walked up to him and graciously took the payasam and invite, containing her utter excitement. “This is really happening. Really happening. I always knew my girl was special,” Lakshmi’s mother thought, forcibly concealing a smile and her pride. “How our footing in this village will change with such an opportunistic alliance if our Lakshmi is selected.”
She straightened her back as she walked back to her place in the crowd and then unable to conceal her joy any longer, she let out a smug smile. All of a sudden, Devi stood so erect. She was filled with new found confidence and pride that could be felt by every other woman around her. She basked in their jealousy.
~
Devi invited Trisha, her best friend, over to the house for her advice. Trisha insisted she would be of little use, but Devi enticed her with the promise of Lakshmi’s revered cardamom tea. Once the two women were together, Trisha began providing unsolicited advice with Devi intently listening, “Devi. Now listen
carefully. Don’t take this opportunity for granted just because your daughter is simply stunning. It’s not every day an invitation like this comes to a home like ours. You will have to teach your girl a few maneuvers to charm the fellow. The tongues of those women from the upper class are sharp and will take every opportunity to muddy her reputation if things are not handled properly.”
Devi and Trisha had known each other since they were both young girls themselves and had grown up only a few houses apart from one another. They had celebrated the good times and suffered through the hardest of times together. They were always there for one another.
Trisha had secretly eyed Lakshmi for her oldest son, Krishna, but she never had the courage to ask Devi for Lakshmi’s hand given their sisterly relationship. Plus, Krishna was stocky and of a smaller stature. He was dusky in color and already had thinning hair as a young man of nineteen that no amount of coconut oil helped save.
Devi had always been arrogant and protective over her precious Lakshmi and boasted how Lakshmi was destined to marry someone handsome, tall, and of course, fair like her. Vishnu, being as rich as he was, would be the icing on the cake. Trisha was pleased for her friend having received the invitation. The prospect of her best friend’s daughter not being chosen, however, seemed certain to her. Trisha had surmised that surely the wealthiest family of their village wasn’t going to select the lowly village girl, no matter how beautiful she was. They had a certain class and status to maintain. She was sure that the other mothers from the priest class wouldn’t allow this and would do anything to sabotage the match.
If Trisha was right, and she felt very good about the odds, she knew that Devi’s smugness would have to quickly melt away
with all the shame she would face from the rejection. It would be at that time that Trisha would victoriously step in and offer to help her friend. At that time, Trisha thought, she would ask for Lakshmi’s hand in marriage for her Krishna. Sure, Krishna wasn’t tall, fair, handsome or even rich, but he was more than a disgraced Lakshmi would be worth then.
Devi would be at her lowest and desperate. “Then”, Trisha thought as Devi was muttering away about the preparations, “she will agree and we will see who has the upper hand. I’ll make sure that my Krishna will have the fairest bride and I, a daughter-in-law that will be so grateful for my kindness. Finally, I will have someone to take the burden of my household chores from me and make me special cardamom tea when I ask for it.”
~
Lakshmi’s grandmother was quietly lying on the cot listening to Devi and Trisha as they strategically came up with a plan on how Lakshmi would capture the attention of Vishnu and his mother, Gayatri during their “interview”. Lakshmi’s grandmother knew better than to meddle in the affairs of Devi. In the past, she had tried to encourage Devi to think more about her daughter’s future in broader terms than just having her married off. Lakshmi was smart and curious to learn. Her grandmother saw the great scholar Lakshmi could be.
It was pointless. Devi saw an independent woman in their society as trouble. That was garbage propaganda that the Tollywood movies tried to push. It only worked for wealthy women. Not village folk like them.
Lakshmi’s grandmother was a progressive woman, trapped in this bubble. In her old age, she had become dependent on Devi and her son, having no resources for herself. She had tried to
be a staunch advocate for Lakshmi to read more, draw, and listen to current events on the transistor radio to broaden her perspectives. She would sneak books to her granddaughter at night after she got home from the Idukki Eco Farm that she had found thrown away or had borrowed from the old shopkeeper friend of hers. She encouraged her granddaughter to learn more than what was within the walls of their daily village life.
“Why do you have her waste her time listening to that nonsense on the radio? We don’t live in a big city or in foreign. Who cares what is happening in Amrika? Put some music on. It’s been such a long day. I want to relax now.” Devi would argue with her mother-in-law.
On other days, Devi would be heard yelling at Lakshmi’s grandmother, “She is too beautiful and will must be married young. She should focus on learning to take care of the household and not on these things. Come Lakshmi, let me show you how to mend your dad’s shirt.”
After some time, Lakshmi’s grandmother grew tired of the back-and-forth bickering. To maintain peace in the household, she decided it was best that she stayed quiet and in the background. As she grew older, she lost the fight to advocate for her granddaughter’s future. She hoped and prayed that Lakshmi would live a different life than hers or Devi’s. A life of independence and freedom.
Perhaps there was no escape from the role of a dutiful wife? Perhaps education was only for men and for the women of upper classes? Her fighting spirit had finally been beaten out of her after eighty decades. Her words had always been met by abject resistance, but the prospect of this marriage brought possibilities and hope. “If Lakshmi can go to the big city, she would have better opportunities than she would ever have here,” Lakshmi’s grandmother prayed for the marriage’s fruition, but
deep down in her gut, she was hesitant knowing Vishnu and his past. “Maybe he truly has changed as they are saying? He was a boy when he left here, and returned a man,” Lakshmi’s grandmother thought as she eavesdropped on Devi and Trisha.
~
“You must spend some money, Devi, and get a few high-class items for your daughter to wear for the big day. Make sure she starts applying the turmeric mask to that face so she glows even fairer and brighter the day of. And put a touch of rouge on her cheeks and stain her lips. It is best if you can clean up her fingernails too and get any dirt off of them. And apply some coconut oil to them to make them feel softer. Don’t let her do too much work around the house and make sure she gets plenty of rest,” Trisha instructed as she took charge of Lakshmi. Despite her secret prediction, Trisha was a well-intentioned woman. Well, she was very confident that Lakshmi would be rejected. She figured that if she was kind now, she would have even stronger leverage when the time came to ask for Lakshmi’s hand in marriage for her son.
Devi had always looked up to Trisha, even though Trisha was only a few months older than her. Trisha moved with a certain confidence and grace that Devi always felt she never had. They were polar opposites in physique. Trisha was shorter, darker, less attractive, but she always seemed to have command over every aspect of life. It was Trisha that helped Devi through her miscarriages as Trisha easily popped out her sons with ease. It was Trisha that told her to consult the village mystic and who had accompanied Devi on all the rituals that ultimately helped her conceive Lakshmi.
Without Trisha, Devi would have been so lost. The gossip and taunts of her infertility would have crushed her. Only Trisha was
ever there for her. Devi’s mother-in-law talked about woman independence and progress, but when the time came, she shunned Devi and advised her son to look for a new, younger wife to bear the next generation. Trisha, on the other hand, never judged. She never told her she was inadequate or weak. She would cheer her up even on days when Devi found it hard to get herself out of bed. She was there. And Trisha was here now again to help Devi and Devi’s daughter. Devi was grateful for having such a true and everlasting friendship.
“And what about that silk sari. It is a little old but they don’t make them that way anymore. The lilac color will complement her fair skin and almond eyes. It will be a subtle touch, just enough to make her pop in front of those rich girls, but not too much to make her look too desperate.” Trisha continued on.
Devi continued listening, taking thorough notes in her head as she admired her friend’s endless wisdom.
“And if that day she makes her special cardamom tea, well that should seal the deal. Those silly rich girls don’t know their way around the kitchen. They don’t even know the difference between cardamom and cloves. Vishnu will need a wife that can do some basic household duties. I’m sure in the big city they’ll have a maid, but he will want to be reminded of his village from time to time. Of his mother’s cooking. He came back home for a wife after all,” Trisha explained with such logic and clarity. Devi marveled at her friend’s wisdom.
And into the night the two ladies continued on, preparing for Lakshmi’s first meeting with Vishnu and the wealthiest family in their small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills.
~
The days leading up to the meeting with Vishnu and his family
were agonizing for Lakshmi. She felt every emotion imaginable. At times, she felt super excited to have been chosen and the only girl from a lower class. Other times, she felt completely nervous and anxious. If she wasn’t chosen, then she knew that she would bring shame to her family. The family would have to suffer taunts from the other women. That pressure was agonizing as she knew what her mother had gone through before her birth.
“She may be beautiful, but they should have considered their position in society before accepting such an invitation,” she imagined that the villagers would chatter behind their backs but for the less shameless, straight to Devi’s face.
“They just wanted to have some sport. For these rich people, we are just there for humiliation. They should have known better, but Devi is so opportunistic,” she ruminated what others could say.
Lakshmi couldn’t bear to hear anything against her family and wondered if accepting this invitation was the right step to take. Yet, at the same time, Vishnu would be her only way out of this small village. An opportunity like this would likely never come again.
She spent the late nights reading the books her grandmother had secretly snuck to her. She even got a Malory Towers book from Kanika once. She had read that book over and over again. There were so many exciting prospects outside this tiny world she had always known. She knew that there was a life for her beyond picking the right cardamom pods at the exact time they were ready to be harvested. That was a life her mother was good with, but she dared to dream bigger. She was like her grandmother and wanted more for herself. She may have been born into a poor family, may have had her formal education cut short, but Lakshmi did not have to accept this life forever. She didn’t want to end up like her mother. She didn’t want to be yet another
generation of women stuck in this small village with limited opportunity. She saw it clearly now. Vishnu was her ticket out of here.
~
The day before the big “interview”, Lakshmi made a conscience effort to drown out the gossiping voices of the women as they rode up in the pick-up to the cardamom estate. The women congratulated Devi and her daughter on the invite. Secretly, however, they were all thinking along the same lines as Trisha. Despite Lakshmi’s God-given beauty, she still wouldn’t win the hearts of the wealthy because of her family’s low social status.
That didn’t hold some of them back from expressing this concern. “No amount of beauty will make up for the fact that she was born into the labor class, Devi,” one woman chimed in, despite the stares from the other women trying to urge her to remain quite through some form of ESP.
“Shush. You’re all just jealous that your daughters weren’t chosen. Gayatri was once one of us, remember. And now see how she has fared,” Trisha slammed back, vehemently protecting her friend and her daughter. Although Trisha was convinced otherwise, she put on an air of support for her beloved friend. She believed this strategy would work in her favor when Lakshmi was rejected. Devi would come groveling to and pleading Trisha to take Lakshmi as her daughter-in-law.
Lakshmi half-listened to the women’s chatter. Tomorrow was going to be the day that would decide her future. The day when her fortune could change in a blink of an eye, in or out of her favor. At times, she felt terribly nervous. She tried to ground herself in reality, reminding herself that she could not change the result and that Goddess Lakshmi had already determined
her fate. She could only do her best to present herself as the best possible candidate for Vishnu’s wife. Earlier that morning, she had spent some meditative moments in the Gangalee fields as she did every morning after doing her chores. It hadn’t been peaceful as her mind raced between the different possibilities of the interview results. She was annoyed at her agitation and her inability to focus on her drawings or anything else.
Now at the back of the pick-up, she started feeling suffocated with the same restlessness. She took in deep breaths, inhaling the crisp, dewy morning air of the Idukki hills and quietly exhaling as not to draw attention to her nerves from the scavenging women upfront. As she sat in the corner of the pick-up bed, she begged the trees with their leaves dressed in the morning dew to give her some form of peace. She pleaded with the little creatures that scurried through the flora to distract her today.
Regardless of the result tomorrow, her whole life would change direction for better or worse. Everything she knew before would cease to exist as it was. She beckoned for courage that if she was chosen that she would be the perfect bride. The perfect wife. That she would bear the most beautiful sons. That she would put her family name on the map and it would shine so bright that no one would ever dare to look down on her family again. She tried to dispel the negative thoughts of the shame and despair that would befall her family if she was rejected.
Focusing on achieving the match, Lakshmi realized that this would also mean that today would be the last tea party she would share with Kanika madam and the other young girls. She would miss gathering around the fancy fine bone China teapot from England that Aaya would pour the freshly brewed cardamom tea from and into the Made in India steel cups for the girls to
enjoy. It would be the last time she would have those buttery tea biscuits.
As she thought of the past tea parties, she then smiled to herself. If she were to succeed, then perhaps she too would be sitting in a pretty chiffon dress with her hair tied perfectly back in a neat ponytail like Kanika madam. With Vishnu’s wealth, she would be a madam of the house and she too could have her own Mamta serving tea to underprivileged girls. Those girls too would then have the chance to dream of one day becoming like her, a wealthy benefactor. It was such a beautiful dream, which was suddenly cut short by her mother yelling at her to come out of her daydream and get out of the pick-up truck.
“Silly girl. You haven’t received the proposal yet. Today, you still have to work,” Devi said, gently smacking the back of Lakshmi’s neck with her palm. Devi did this more as an act of discipline in front of the other ladies as she could feel her own cockiness and pride. Devi had been riding high after the news, but anxiety was starting to get the better of her. “What if Lakshmi isn’t chosen?” Devi thought. “The shame. The shame.” She shook her head as they clocked in to begin their shift. Devi poured in all her effort into the work to distract herself from the racing thoughts that oscillated between Lakshmi’s proposal being a success versus a flop.
~
As they sat down to afternoon tea with Kanika madam, Lakshmi’s mind wandered off again as she held her steel cup of steaming hot cardamom tea in her small, tired hands.
All of a sudden, her thoughts were interrupted as she heard the other girls telling Kanika madam that Lakshmi had received
a prospective marriage invitation from the village elder’s household.
“Kanika madam. Do you know our very own, Lakshmi, is seeing a prospective groom tomorrow?” one of the older girls with tightly bound pig-tails on either side of her head shared.
“He is from the wealthiest family in our village and is now some big, hot shot businessman in Kochi. Maybe, once Lakshmi is there, you may see her on one of your trips to Kochi, Kanika madam,” another girl mentioned.
“Wow, that is wonderful Lakshmi. Congratulations! I could never imagine getting married so…so young, but you, village girls always do,” Kanika madam chuckled. “I don’t think I would want to get married until I’m at least in my mid-20s. I still have to go to university, get my MBA, and see New York, London Paris, Singapore,” she went on. The attention had shifted off of Lakshmi and back to Kanika madam in that moment.
The village girls had no idea what an MBA was or all those places Kanika madam had just rattled off, but it sounded fancy to all of them. They marveled at the luxury of time that rich women had in choosing when to get married. A rich person’s privilege! They could do whatever they wanted. Why, if they chose not to get married like Kanika madam’s aunt, these wealthy heiresses could do so with no consequences or shame. Kanika madam’s aunt was considered a fascinating recluse, full of allure and intrigue. If she lived in their village, she would be a laughingstock and called a childless, old cow that had been too picky with her prospects and now living off of the handouts from her burdened family. She would be a pariah.
“Are you excited, Lakshmi?” Kanika madam shifted the attention back at Lakhsmi, noticing that Lakshmi had left her
biscuit soaking in her cardamom tea too long that the poor biscuit had gotten too and fallen into the depths of the hot tea.
“Huh?! Sorry, Kanika madam, what was that?” Lakshmi replied, snapping back into reality.
The girls erupted in laughter.
“Looks like Lakshmi is day-dreaming again,” the girls teased.
A bewildered Lakshmi smiled a lovely, good-natured smile with her pearly white teeth peeking through her naturally rosy lips. The young women giggled together like schoolgirls chatting over a boy crush. Lakshmi blushed, exposing her dimples and bashfully hid behind her best friend, Rani. Luckily, the attention moved away from Lakshmi and back to usual topics like the latest fashion trends Kanika madam had seen on her last trip to Kochi, the hot gossip of the Tollywood’s actors and actresses, and the latest steamy romance novel Kanika madam had thumbed through recently.
~
That night, Rani stayed over at Lakshmi’s house, where she helped Devi and Trisha arrange Lakshmi’s outfit including jewelry and make-up for the next morning. Lakshmi had been applying turmeric paste every evening to her face and was told to do very light work that kept her away from the tanning rays of the sun. God forbid her skin darkened and emphasized the peasant class she had been born into. Rani had helped out with the household chores and fetched water from the well over the last few days. Devi and Trisha fawned over Lakshmi and were now engaged in a squabble over what sari Lakshmi should wear, despite this having been agreed on before.
“Devi, listen. Lilac will accentuate her fine features and complement her skin tone,” Trisha urged.
“Lakshmi, come here…Come. Come here, my child. Try on this pink sari. It is a more traditional color. No, this red one is better,” Lakshmi’s mother lashed back at her friend as she tugged at her daughter towards her, pulling her away from Trisha’s grasp.
The two women went back and forth for around a half hour until her grandmother finally could take more of the bickering, “I have to agree with Trisha on this, Devi. The lilac sari really makes Lakshmi’s features stand out. You don’t want her to just be another traditional girl. Vishnu is from the big city. He’s looking for a bit of modern and traditional mix.”
“See, Devi. Even your mother-in-law has more sense than you. And let’s tie it this way so her midriff shows just enough to tempt Vishnu but at the same time protect her dignity and the family honor. It is a tricky balance, especially for us folks,” Trisha explained and gesturing an okay sign, pleased at her knowledge of these nuances.
As usual, Devi folded to her friend’s wisdom despite feeling so strongly about the sari. She listened intently as if Trisha was so knowledgeable and worldly. She felt this way even though their upbringings were similar and they were just a few months apart in age. It had always been that way. Devi hardly ever made a decision of her own and looked to Trisha for direction. She held her friend and her advice on the highest pedestal. Even so, no one could argue that Trisha was a force to reckon with. She had always been by Devi’s side, in both happiness and sadness. That was more love and support she had received from anyone, even from her own mother or her husband, Arvind.
As the evening went on, the women continued to make preparations for the “interview”. They went through the meager jewelry possessions that they owned between the two of them and styled the perfect outfit. Trisha had even asked Krishna
to run to the market early the next morning to get a gajra to adorn Lakshmi’s hair with the sweet scent of jasmine flowers and to further accent her carefully coordinated look. They had massaged warm coconut oil into Lakshmi’s hair that would be washed out the next morning to give her hair that extra shine and bounce. Her eyebrows were naturally arched and Trisha ever so gently threaded them just a bit further to bring a bit more sophistication and definition to them. Between them, they chose the nicest looking set of slippers that would just peek out from under the lilac sari and Trisha, being the more cultured of the two, showed Lakshmi how to walk so her gait remained elegant and the attention was never on the worn-out slippers.
Over the past few days, they had overwhelmed Lakshmi with advice on how to politely and playfully charm Vishnu and his family, distracting from the poverty that she so clearly came from. Fortunately, Lakshmi was naturally charismatic.
“Now hurry, Lakshmi. You need to get to rest. Rani will paint your nails that light pink purple shade and then off to bed the two of you,” the women beckoned as they disappeared into the kitchen to chit chat some more over some cardamom tea.
~
Rani and Lakshmi had grown up together in the small village nestled at the foot of the Idukki hills. They both had very similar stories just like Trisha and Devi, and the many young girls of the village had. At some point their parents had to make the not-so-difficult decision to pull them out of school and put them to work on the local farms. After all, their only purpose in life was to get married young and serve as wives and mothers. The villagers, led by the women, always pondered, “What would an education possibly do for girls like them? What good had it done for any woman from their village?”
The girls were roughly the same age, being only a few days apart. Rani was the oldest daughter with three brothers and a sister, all of whom had come much later in birth than her. She had more or less taken the role of a mother for all of them after their own mother had died in childbirth, giving birth to her little sister. Her mother had named her Rani, hoping that one day she would be the queen of her own kingdom and escape the squalor of this village. Like Lakshmi, she started work at the cardamom estate at a ripe age and would hop on a slightly later ride than Lakshmi after completing her chores and sending her siblings off to school. The owners of the Idukki Eco Lodge were thoughtful and provided leniency, having known Rani’s mother prior to her tragic passing.
Despite the obstacles, young Rani was hopeful and idealistic. She found ways to distract from the hurt. When Rani did the household chores and ran after her siblings, she would pretend she was a wealthy heiress playing make believe. It had been just her and her siblings at home most days. Her father went on long trucking jobs and spent most of the little time he was home, drunk and worn after spending the little money he earned on booze and the local brothel. Her maternal aunt and uncle lived in a village nearby and would visit every big festival or when they could. They doted on Rani and helped her out whenever they could. They vowed that one day they would find her a suitable raja to rescue her from the life she led just as her mother had wishes.
Rani was a unique soul. Despite losing her mother at such a young age and having to take care of the brood left behind, she shouldered those responsibilities with such positivity that no one bothered to see the terrible tragedy she bore.
“Lakshmi, how lucky you are,” Rani said, concealing her jealousy, as she painted the first coat of polish on Lakshmi’s
almond-shaped fingernails. “You truly are a rose that has grown among us thorns, and I have no doubt that Vishnu will choose you, tomorrow.” She said this with some pain as she beamed with a forced smile.
“I sure hope so, Rani. I cannot wait to leave this village and experience the wonders of the big city. Marrying Vishnu will open that door for sure. It will be like a romance in one of those Mills & Boon novels that Kanika madam reads to us. Vishnu, my dashing savior, will sweep me off my feet and treat me like a queen in his luxury 3BHK. And once I settle into life in Kochi, I will find a raja for you too, Rani. One of his industrialist friends, perhaps?! And we will both live like queens that we were born to be,” Lakshmi responded light-heartedly as she quashed the intense nervousness.
Both girls sat there, delighting in the prospect of both leaving their mundane life, which was in itself a kind of servitude handed down to them from generations of yore. They couldn’t wait to be the two girls to break this vicious cycle. And it just made sense that Lakshmi would be able to do so first.
She was the prettier of the two and had always been. She was fair-skinned, tall and had the thickest and darkest hair that would cascade down her back. Rani was also fair, but just not quite as fair as Lakshmi. She was more blessed in her chest area, but her boyish hips added to her stockier figure. Her hair was very curly and because she just didn’t have the luxury of time with needing to care for and feed four younger siblings and a transient drunk father, she kept it cropped adding to her boyishness. When they walked the village streets, she felt invisible beside Lakshmi and certainly not the one that the village men would ogle at when they went to the water wells in the morning.
Rani finally finished the last coat of paint and Lakshmi’s tired hands all of a sudden brightened with the subtle pink purple shade. They looked so elegant as bit by bit she transformed into a true contender for tomorrow’s contest over the most eligible bachelor of the wealthiest family in their small village on the cusp of the Idukki hills.
The two girls talked some more about how they would both get married and move to the big city. They would be neighbors swimming in luxury, never having to worry about fetching water from the well or even cooking the meager batches of rice ever again. Everything would be plentiful.
They lay together on Lakshmi’s bed in a room Lakshmi shared with her mother and grandmother. They spent a while longer chatting away about what intimacy with a man would be like, bringing alive the passages Kanika madam had read to them over afternoon tea. They imagined the gentle touch of a man’s lips on their soft skin and how the slow kisses would arouse sensations they had never spoke openly about as they matured. They wondered how their first night with their respective husbands would be like and if it would be as full of passion as described in those Mills & Boon novels. The girls giggled as they had these unholy thoughts, but their chatter was cut short when Trisha and Devi scolded them and told them to go to sleep.
~
The morning of the big day had finally arrived. The day that Lakshmi would be paraded in front of Vishnu and his family and they would decide whether she was of marriageable material into the high priest caste. Diligently, Rani continued on covering Lakshmi’s chores. Today, the household’s full attention was on ensuring the day went smoothly for Lakshmi and the family’s future.
Rani brought in the water from the well and Devi put it on the fire to heat it up so it was just warm enough for Lakshmi to bathe with. As she splashed the bath water over her body, Devi put a few drops of oil that she had infused with the petals of the sweet smelling Gangalee flower. Like a true queen, Lakshmi bathed in the water gently scented by the floral oil as left its perfume on her body.
Devi thoroughly washed out the coconut oil in her daughter’s hair, leaving Lakshmi’s locks bouncy and silky. After the bath, Devi put a few drops of the Gangalee oil in Lakshmi’s hair careful not to make it greasy again, but to add a hint reminiscent of the Gangalee fields of the village. Trisha had recommended this touch, which would subtly remind Vishnu of his hometown. She also put a bit on Lakshmi’s wrists, cleavage and on her neck. Trisha and Devi then spent the next half hour fussing over how to wrap the sari to accentuate Lakshmi’s figure and at the same time revealing just enough of Lakshmi’s sculpted midriff to tempt Vishnu.
As Lakshmi’s hair air dried, Devi applied kajol to Lakshmi’s eyeline, accentuating her already stunning almond-shaped eyes. Her fair skin was so smooth and unblemished that there was not need to apply any concealer or powder make-up. Devi applied a delicate dusting of blush to Lakshmi’s cheeks and just a little on the tip of her button nose. And with just every little bit of adornment, Lakshmi’s beauty shone more beautiful than it had ever before.
“I’m thinking to not add the gold chain. Just earrings should be enough? And no lipstick? She already has such delicate rose-colored lips.” Trisha questioned.
“Hahn. You are right, Trisha. The silver tear drop earrings are more than enough and let’s add a simple red bindi and these lilac bangles,” Devi dutifully responded. Devi was so proud of
her daughter and so thankful to Goddess Lakhsmi for having bestowed such a gift after years of difficulty.
Even though Rani’s hair was cropped, she was the best out of them at styling hair after having years of practice taking care of her little sister’s and in her spare time, she would play with Lakshmi’s. Rani worked her magic creating a thick, cascading waterfall braid. As directed, Krishna had arrived with a fresh gajra and just in time for Rani to add to her masterpiece.
“Well done my boy! Right on time!” Trisha sang her son’s praises. “He brings you luck with his auspicious timing.” Trisha beamed as she dropped a good word in for her son in anticipation of Lakshmi’s rejection later that day.
And with that addition, Lakshmi’s look was complete. She stood up in front of an old cracked full-size mirror that hang on one side of the shared wardrobe’s door. She was shocked at her transformation from an innocent peasant girl into a gorgeous young woman, ready for suitors and even high society. As she marveled in her glow-up, she couldn’t help but feel even more confident and self-assured that this was her moment to shine. Lakshmi now felt she truly had a fighting chance of beating all the other candidates.
Devi, Trisha, and Rani circled her, admiring Lakshmi and dumbfounded as to how something so beautiful could grace the likes of them. They called out to Lakshmi’s grandmother who hobbled in on her cane.
“Wow!” Lakshmi’s grandmother exclaimed, “If I didn’t know it, I would think the Queen of England was in front of us.” They all laughed and Lakshmi’s grandmother came up to her and put a black mark at the back of Lakshmi’s ear to ward off any evil eye and with that, Lakshmi was ready to step outside to show herself to the villagers who had gathered by their house.
~
Lakshmi elegantly stepped out of her house donned in her fine silks as if she was born into the lifestyle of the rajas and ranis. She saw their family friends, relatives, and other villagers lined up in the street to see her and her parents off. Lakshmi now stood in stark contrast to their ragged clothes and dull, sun beaten complexions. They had come out to show her their support, at least that’s what it seemed from the outside. For some villagers, jealous thoughts had found a place and then, there was always that clique of women that never really liked Trisha and Devi and seethed in their ill will for them.
“Look how they’ve glammed her up shamelessly thinking that someone from our class has a chance in the priest class family,” they muttered amongst themselves.
“After he rejects her, that will knock some sense into them. That Devi always turned her nose up at our sons. They were never good enough for her daughter. But just wait when Devi comes back down from the clouds,” a middle-aged mother of two good-for-nothing sons grumbled.
“Ha. The beauty is only there for one or two days. We need a girl that isn’t a decoration piece, but someone who can run a household, bear some healthy sons, and above all take care of her husband’s needs,” another woman said spitefully.
With her head held high, Lakshmi walked past the well-wishers and the not-so-well-wishers. She walked with a new confidence brought on by the delicate make-up illuminating her God-given features and sophisticated dress. She felt like a Tollywood actress, all dolled up with adoring fans watching her with envy and lust as she walked down a red carpet for her latest movie premier.
All the nerves she felt over the past few days faded away. She was so sure in that moment that she would charm Vishnu and her family today. She was more than just beautiful. She was charming and eloquent. Plus, she knew how to cook, clean, and had her fair share of taking care of her younger sibling and cousin. She was respectful to her elders and was always amicable.
She imagined that she had so much more to offer than the other candidates. Those women may hail from the priest class, but they couldn’t match her in beauty or wit. Unlike them, she also was hungry to leave her place in society and felt that Vishnu would sense her drive, being someone who had left this small, suffocating village. This was her one chance to finally get out and she was not going to stop at anything today to have this opportunity pass her by. How many men from this village and from within her caste had made it out of this village? None. None for generations. She got into that pick-up with her parents with complete determination, and they drove on to the grandest house of their small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills.
~
In prospective groom’s household, Gayatri was managing the chaos as preparations were underway for the meetings she had planned with each family and the bride candidate for her beloved son, Vishnu. The past days were spent sprucing up the house and ensuring that every nook of the house had been cleaned. The Cook had been busy preparing specialty vegetarian dishes, including jackfruit curry and a saffron water-infused rava kesari. Marigold arrangements adorned the courtyard and the main living/dining area where the guests would arrive that morning. The whole atmosphere felt festive.
Gayatri was nervous, despite being the groom’s mother and having the upper-hand. She was amazed by how much Vishnu had grown since he left for Kochi. He was the most eligible bachelor this small village had ever seen and was a catch, being a successful big city businessman. She supervised all arrangements herself, from the most minute detail. She had always wanted the best of the best for her only son and she would not tire until she did.
The whole family had to be presentable today and she had given them strict instructions, including what to wear and how to conduct themselves. She had worked with their maid to ensure all outfits were pressed and ready the night before to avoid any hiccups the next day. She even had a newly tailored suit for Vishnu that had been picked up from the nearby town.
The village mystic cautioned her that he should wear a dark green tie with white stripes to ensure that the day stayed auspicious and to ward off the evil eye from Vishnu and the family. Gayatri, always so clued in to the astrological world, made sure that the tie was exactly that shade of green with those stripes. She even had the maid run over to the village mystic to confirm that the tie met the mystic’s instructions. On the behest of the mystic, Gayatri even had the mystic perform a small ceremony to dispel any bad spirits or ill-intending wishers. Gayatri reasoned it was a tiny price to pay to insure her son’s future.
Finally, when she was satisfied with all the arrangements, Gayatri got herself ready in a pale pink pure crepe silk sari and wore her finest gold jewelry that had been given to her as part of her dowry. Between her eyebrows, she carefully placed a large pink bindi that matched her sari. With that, she looked the part of the “traditional Indian wife.”
In her youth, much like Lakshmi, she was quite the beauty, but her face had tired over the years. The miscarriages, the beatings, the bullying and taunts had taken the life out of her once joyful being. She never received the emotional support that she should have received during those painful times. That morning, she revived a bit of her youthful self with splashes of color to her cheeks and staining her plump lips. She added a light line of kajol to her waterline so that her amber eyes would light up once again. With that, she felt enlivened as she took on the role of a dutiful mother, whose whole life had been dedicated to raise her son and find him a young woman to fill her shoes. She wanted to ensure that her one and only son had all the joys a married life brought.
~
It was finally time for the appointments. The prospective brides began rolling in with their parents in the foyer of the grand house. The village elder and Ramdev were dressed in white silk dhotis. Along with Gayatri, they stood in the entrance to greet each family with a respectful namaskar. The maid ushered each family to sit in order in the guest room that had been temporarily converted into a waiting room for the day.
In the waiting room, Gayatri made sure that the guests understood could visualize what marrying into her family meant. There was a luxurious spread of snacks that included local delicacies, imported European chocolate, and even those shortbread cookies that Lakshmi had only seen at tea time at the cardamom estate. They had green napkins outlined with a gold border, which perfectly complemented the fine bone China plates laid out for the guests to use along with heirloom silver cutlery.
The Cook came by to ask if anyone wanted cardamom tea, water, Limca or a Thums up. They even had the aircon blasting at full to keep the guests cool. And undoubtedly, Gayatri’s ostentatious display did not go unnoticed by the guests. Their eyes grew big as they observed the grandeur of the mini palace in the grandest home of their little village. In their heads, the guests tried to calculate the groom’s family’s vast wealth and couldn’t even imagine what Vishnu’s success in the big city looked like. They were already so impressed by the opulence in front of them that day. Within families, knowing glances were exchanged, heads nodded in mutual understanding, and eyebrows danced in unison with smiles at the expensive décor. The fine silk clothes that the hosts wore hadn’t gone unnoticed either. Every touch boasted wealth.
Lakshmi and her family were equally astonished when they arrived. They knew they were wealthy, but they hadn’t comprehended this until they stepped into the grand house. For a short moment, nervousness returned to Lakshmi as she saw the other candidates. Unlike her, they were wearing finer silk saris and heavier, finer gold jewelry that had been imported from the Middle East. Her family was clearly very poor in comparison to theirs.
Through the village whisperings, she and her family had heard that Vishnu’s family would want at the very least a brand-new car for the family and a motorcycle for Vishnu. Lakshmi’s palms started to sweat and her heart was beating rapidly as these thoughts continued to flood her mind. The thought that her family would not be able to provide a dowry without her father taking out hefty loans from greedy loan sharks worried Lakshmi. She was wearing pretty much all the gold jewelry her mother owned.
Lakshmi had heard her parents chatting over the past few late nights through the thin, poorly insulated walls of their small home. They discussed how they would arrange the dowry in the event that Lakshmi was indeed chosen. Her father had talked to this man in the next village who would offer them a loan that would be paid over 5 years. The lender had said that there would be no interest on the loan for the first six months and then it would be a flat 30% every month from then on. They intended to pay the loan back as quickly as possible to avoid the hefty interest if they could. Her father had decided that he would take on extra trucking jobs and would find additional odd jobs to meet ends where needed. Devi would have to find additional night jobs in the nearby town, but they would make it work with some sacrifice.
Devi saw the sudden change in Lakshmi’s demeanor and took her hand in hers. She blinked holding the blink for a few seconds to provide Lakshmi with reassurance. It was Devi’s silent way of telling her daughter not to worry and to focus on the task of the day, winning Vishnu. Vishnu was Lakshmi’s ticket to her dreams out of this village.
“What if the family asked for more?” Lakshmi thought as she looked at her mother. With Devi’s reassurance, Lakshmi shook the negative thoughts away. “It is a price to pay for moving up in the world. Plus, my mother is right, I can’t worry about that now. I may not even be chosen,” Lakshmi reasoned.
To Devi, it was important to have her daughter married off as young as possible. It was just the icing on the cake that if this match worked out, Lakshmi would marry a rich businessman and have the opportunity to move out of the village. It was a rare opportunity that women like her never got. Plus, Devi knew that her dear friend, Trisha, was right. This was one chance in a blue moon given to Lakshmi and only because Lakshmi was as
beautiful as she was. Devi always knew that her baby girl shone more brightly that any other girl in the village and had brought luck to their family. Devi felt confident like she never had before that Lakshmi was destined to be with Vishnu.
For Lakshmi’s father, a quiet and reserved man, the prospect of her marrying up was equally important. For him, the math was easier. He was glad that his daughter would be married sooner than later as having a daughter around was a burden. It just happened that the marriage prospect was from the wealthiest family of the village. In his mind, any man would have done for Lakshmi. He even thought Krishna would have been a good enough, but Devi would always dismiss the idea of that union. With regards to the dowry, he figured that Lakshmi’s brother and cousin-brother would be able to work in a year or so and would contribute towards paying off the loan as well, if needed. Plus, Arvind figured that if his son’s sister was married into the highest class in their village, then his son would have his pick of girls in the village. Through this alliance, their status would be elevated, and Arvind was pleased that him and his son would receive the respect a man from his class was never afforded or could ever imagine.
~
“Family of Lakshmi,” the maid in her role as “personal assistant” today called on Lakshmi and her parents. She then guided them from the make-shift waiting room through a long passageway along one side of the courtyard and ushered them into a spacious, well-decorated room. They were the fifth of the eight candidates to be interviewed and everyone in the room looked weary from the long hours of small talk and introductions.
Devi thought to herself that it would have been better if they gone first or last. Trisha had said that those would be the most memorable visits to the family and looking at everyone’s tired faces, it appeared so. Perhaps Vishnu’s family had done this on purpose. Her sweet daughter was being just there for them to have some fun among interviewing the real candidates.
Devi then pulled all her energy together to get out of the negative spiral of thoughts, remembering that her daughter was a unique flower among these weeds. “These other candidates may have more money, but they don’t have the class, personality or the charisma to match it. No one can compete with my Lakshmi. A rose among thorns,” she reassured herself as they walked into the grand living and dining room. She held on to that thought, holding her shoulders high, proudly presenting her daughter as did any of the other mothers that day.
“Come, come now. Don’t be shy. Sit here. And you, Lakshmi, over here so we can all see you well. Here, in the light,” Ramdev and Gayatri welcomed Lakshmi and her parents.
They crept forward initially intimidated by the grandeur of the room that was bigger than their two-room house.
“You have a very beautiful daughter. She is very fair and I’m sure you must have nobility somewhere in your ancestry,” Gayatri said as she closely examined Lakshmi.
“Stand up and show us your feet,” Ramdev barked at Lakshmi. He was less pleased by the match, although he allowed his wife to fervently pursue it. “I need to make sure she can walk properly. She seems to be hiding something beneath her sari.”
Lakshmi’s cheeks flushed with embarrassment by the request as she gently lifted her sari to reveal her perfect, slender feet. Despite the raggedness of her slippers, Ramdev nodded that he was satisfied she had no hidden physical defects.
“Now child, tell us a bit about yourself and why you would like to marry our Vishnu,” Gayatri proceeded, diffusing the tension Ramdev’s stunt had created. As she spoke, she turned towards her son that had been quietly seated on an armchair across from Lakshmi and her parents under a dimly lit lamp. All that could be seen from their perspective was a smartly dressed lanky man and the glint of his teeth, one of which was coated in gold.
Lakshmi felt this was some sort of trap. A young lady should be seen and not heard, and should wait for her parents to speak first. At least, that’s what Trisha had instructed her and Devi. Demurely turning to her parents with a delicate smile and a sparkle in her eyes, she looked at them for permission to speak.
Arvind and Devi stepped in with a somewhat rehearsed dialogue that they had worked on with Trisha’s husband and Trisha over the past week. They explained how dear their young daughter was and that she was their lucky charm. Since her birth, neither of them had ever experienced any difficulty as Lakshmi had brought so much luck. They hoped that she would do the same for her future household when the time came. They spoke of how humbled they were to have their daughter chosen to interview for a potential alliance with Vishnu and his family.
They strategically decided to leave out any discussion of their ability to meet any sort of dowry or that their meager living could possibly provide. Their social status was no mystery to anyone there. At most, Arvind and Devi knew they could provide some gold jewelry and the motorbike for Vishnu, but they left this out for if and when, Lakshmi was chosen.
As they spoke, Gayatri noticed the yawns in the room from the very long day. To change up the pace, she asked if Lakshmi could accompany Cook to the kitchen to make some tea as it was nearing 2pm now. It was one of the times during the day that Vishnu and his family sat down for their tea. She made sure
everyone in the room knew how particular her son was about his tea and that only she had ever really been able to make him the perfect cup.
“But no pressure, my dear. Even Cook hasn’t been able to make chai like I do for my handsome boy,” Gayatri said as Lakshmi and Cook walked out to the kitchen.
Devi got nervous at the thought of her daughter having to make tea, when none of the other girls had to. A flood of negative thoughts entered her mind as she sat there quietly, unable to do anything in the situation. “Was this an additional test because they were from a lower class? Was this intended to embarrass them?” Devi thought. Despite this, she maintained her composure with a smile as they sat in now awkward silence with the prospective groom’s family. Arvind seemed unmoved by the situation as to him, it was only customary for women to fetch tea for men and their guests.
As Devi sat there in her thoughts, she remembered what Trisha said about Lakshmi’s god-gifted talents. She was an all-rounder. She wasn’t just blessed in physical beauty, but she could make a bowl of rice taste like a feast fit for a raja. As Devi grounded herself in these truths, she felt relief and remembered how fragrant and delicious Lakshmi’s special cardamom tea had always been. Everyone who came to their house, asked that it be made by Lakshmi, so surely it would match if not beat out Gayatri’s tea.
A short while later, Lakshmi arrived with Cook two steps behind her, holding a fine bone China pot of tea, tea cups and an assortment of shortbread cookies, nuts, and savory snacks on a large tray. Cook put down the freshly-polished silver tray adorned with floral engravings and was about to begin tea service when Gayatri interrupted.
“No, no. Let us have Lakshmi serve the tea. Cook, you can go for now,” Gayatri instructed.
Lakshmi took a deep breath as she could see everyone’s eyes fixated on her. Luckily during her afternoon teas with Kanika madam over the years, she had observed the proper etiquette of serving tea. She asked the most important person in the room first, the village elder, and proceeded down the line in seniority to Ramdev, Gayatri, Vishnu, Vishnu’s family, her father, and then finally, her mother. She asked each one how they liked their tea. After tea was served, she followed on with offering snacks. She was sure not to serve herself at all. And when all done, her cheeks flushed pink with pride for having successfully completed her first tea service.
The chatter amongst the men mainly continued over menial topics such as the local village ordinances and happenings. And as they drank the first sips of tea, the village elder smiled, delighting in its taste. He then cheekily asked his grandson what he thought of the tea. Out of the shadows, the lanky young man emerged grinning.
“Mother,” a deep voice cut through the room. “Don’t be mad now, but this is the most delicious cup of tea I’ve ever had,” Vishnu exclaimed as he caught the demure eyes of Lakshmi and held his gaze. Lakshmi caught his eyes, but quickly averted hers from his. In that quick exchange, she briefly saw her potential suitor that had been so mysterious before that moment. With that glance, Lakshmi felt a warm sensation throughout her body, one that she had never felt before. Her heart beat so much faster that she was scared the people in the room would hear how easily she had been affected.
Gayatri smiled and let out a laugh, followed by, “Oh my, looks like I may have met my match finally.” Gayatri was overjoyed by Lakshmi’s performance and this could be used to further
advocate for her as a match for Vishnu when she later spoke with Ramdev and the family. The village mystic had said their horoscopes were perfectly matched, despite the fact that Lakshmi came from a lower class, and this seemed to reaffirm it.
“That girl may have been born into their class but she is truly a child of the Gods disguised as a pauper,” the village mystic had told Gayatri. “Don’t let that one go, and don’t focus too much on the dowry. That may impede marriage matters. Lakshmi will ensure that your son’s fate roars and he will reach such unbelievable ranks with her by his side. Heed my words, Gayatri, and make sure you convince Ramdev. Your husband is a bit of a knucklehead, but you will need to navigate this alliance sensibly.”
After the tea service was complete, Lakshmi and her parents departed the room and were shown out the front door. As Trisha had advised Devi, Devi was sure not to ask too many questions regarding the next steps and so they left without appearing desperate.
“You don’t want to appear too eager, Devi. They will be put off by that and throw taunts at you because we come from a lower class,” Trisha warned her best friend. And so, Devi, her husband, and Lakshmi left a quarter after 3 that afternoon. They were handed a box of coconut barfi and sent along their way.
~
On the ride back home, Lakshmi felt so proud of herself. No matter what the outcome, she could hold on to the fact that there was nothing more she could have done to make that interview go more smoothly. With Rani’s help, she prepared herself to accept the lowest of expectations going in, but she couldn’t help that gut feeling of full confidence that she had this in the bag.
Comparing herself to competition in terms of beauty and grace, she outshone every girl there. Plus, she was the only girl that had been asked to make tea and her family had stayed at least a half hour more than any of the other girls and their families. And above all, Vishnu had spoken directly to her and praised her special cardamom tea as better than even his own mother’s. What praise!
He gave her the most endearing compliment she had ever received from a man or anyone really. She could feel a warmth fill her body again as she replayed his words in her head. She savored the glimpse she had gotten of her future husband. She felt a sensation between her loins that she had never experienced before as she thought again and again of the moment her and Vishnu’s eyes met. She looked to see if her parents had noticed these passionate feelings she was having. Feeling a bit embarrassed, her cheeks flushed pink.
“But are these thoughts really so bad?” she asked herself. “At the end of the day, he may become my husband. The man I spend the rest of my life with.” She couldn’t help but feel a sense of joy over this possibility and she relished in this happy feeling.
~
The anticipation had been eating at Lakshmi and her family over the past couple of days and the anxiety was only heightened by close friends persistently asking if they had heard anything from the village elder’s household. Trisha spent the last few days comforting Devi as she became restless from the wait. Trisha urged her friend to exercise some patience as they had no control over the outcome. Secretly, Trisha anticipated that the delay was due to a rejection coming Devi’s way and she couldn’t wait to leap at the opportunity to ask Lakshmi’s hand in marriage for her son.
Finally, a golden sealed envelope had arrived by messenger with the family name embossed in elegant calligraphy. That night, the sky was so clear that every star was visible and the moon was full. The face of the moon appeared to be smiling down on Lakshmi’s home in that small village in the Idukki hills. The family, along with Trisha and Rani, gathered closely together in one of their dimly lit rooms. Lakshmi felt her throat dry up and she took a large gulp as her mother pulled out a card adorned by the Lord Ganesha on the cover. Fervent looks were exchanged as Devi flipped open the card and with her poor grasp of reading announced, “A Hearty Congratulations to the Parents of Lakshmi.”
Uncharacteristically, Lakshmi tore the card out of her mother’s hands to read the words herself and save herself from the suspense that had been building over the past days. She stood aback in disbelief as she read out loud that she had been selected. She had won the heart of the most eligible bachelor in their village. She was beyond overjoyed. She was a step closer to moving to Kochi and leaving this boring life. She couldn’t help but let out a series of loud exclamations, “Yes! Yes! Yes!”
Devi was ecstatic that she ran into the kitchen and brought out the gifted box of coconut burfi to sweeten everyone’s mouth in honor of the excellent news. Her daughter was going to get married. Married to not just anyone, but to the richest family and the most successful son the village had ever seen. She always knew her daughter was destined for great things and this news proved it.
Trisha was shell-shocked. She masked the pangs of jealousy with a broad, fake smile of support. “What will I do with Krishna, now?” she silently questioned herself as she stood there. She then took the card that had been placed aside to read the news herself and to confirm this was not just her imagination.
“A Hearty Congratulations to the Parents of Lakshmi. We cordially invite you to our home this Saturday evening to formalize the engagement of our dear son, Vishnu, and our future daughter-in-law, Lakshmi.” Lakshmi and her family, Trisha and Rani spent the rest of the evening celebrating and chatting about next steps, which Trisha painfully set aside her utter disappointment through the festivities.
Lakshmi’s grandmother and Devi held each other in a strong embrace, something they otherwise never did. Both of them were overjoyed by the prospect of the marriage, although both for different reasons. Lakshmi’s grandmother couldn’t contain the pure relief that her granddaughter would be the first of a long line of women from this village to escape. The invitation from the village elder’s household was more than just a prospect for marriage. It represented freedom. Freedom from the shackles of ordinariness of the lives of women born into a lowly rank in a small village on the outskirts of Idukki had to bear from.
For Devi, she was thrilled that her daughter was to be married so young and into such a prestigious household. Devi’s status amongst the women would be automatically elevated. Devi could unabashedly gloat to all the other village women of how they were blessed with Lakshmi, the namesake of the Goddess herself, after years of them taunting her over her miscarriages and ill fortunes. For Devi, however, the cherry on top was that when the time came for her son to marry, he would have his pick as all the women who had previously stuck up their noses at her, would be parading their daughters in front of her.
Lakshmi and Rani huddled together on Lakshmi’s bed that was in the far corner of the room she shared with her mother and grandmother, fervently chatting and giggling away at Lakshmi’s good news. When they were younger, they had always known
that they were not going to stay in this small village and that one day, they were both going to leave. The girls had big dreams for themselves. Rani knew that Lakshmi would always be the first to leave. She was so much prettier and didn’t have the responsibility of younger siblings like she did. Rani was truly overjoyed for her friend, but couldn’t help but compare how her life was not nearly half as free and fortunate as Lakshmi’s.
“If it wasn’t for my mother dying and my god-awful father who comes home drunk from who knows where, I too could have been chosen for Vishnu. I’m just as fair as Lakshmi, and if I grew my hair long, just as stunning if not more. People would be enthralled by my shapely body. These breasts. Mine are so voluptuous and full in comparison to those small mangos she has poking out of her kameez,” Rani thought to herself while giggling sillily away with her best friend atop of Lakshmi’s bed.
As they chatted, the evening turned into the early morning hours and finally, Trisha and Rani left to their respective homes. Lakshmi and her family turned in for the night, lying in their beds, but no one able to sleep given the rush of excitement that the news in that little gold envelope gave. Today, they felt truly blessed as they wrestled thoughts of joy and anticipation of what was to come next with the need to sleep.
~
By the morning, the news had spread like wild fire and the village ladies circled Lakshmi and her family like vultures. They barged in, without invitation, into Devi’s and Arvind’s home and began what seemed to be an inquest. When Lakshmi went out to fetch water, she was crowded by inquiring tongues. She narrowly escaped to sit in the Gangalee fields, a small reprieve she especially enjoyed today as she sat there reveling in the news she received the night before. As she looked around, she
noticed that the flowers seemed to burst with an extra splash of happiness as their gentle purple hue lit up in the sun’s rays. Lakshmi took a few deep breaths as she inhaled the sweet, delicate fragrance and admired the moments of peacefulness surrounding her. She relished in her prospects without the barrage of questions from the village ladies as she lay face up, looking up at the clouds and smiling with birds flying overhead and the sun blessing her with its warmth. She felt truly happy in that moment of mindfulness.
~
Somehow, Kanika madam had heard the news of Lakshmi’s upcoming engagement and called an impromptu mid-week afternoon tea while they were at the Idukki Eco Farm for their regular shift. She was so excited and wanted to hear every detail. Kanika madam was fascinated by the lives of the girls that lived in their tiny homes in the small village on the outskirts of Idukki. Today, she had even asked Mamta to bring an eggless Black Forest cake for the girls to enjoy and with her mother, had picked one of her finest rose-colored saris with a delicate silver trim and a small gold aum pendant and chain to gift Lakshmi ahead of her engagement. Lakshmi tried to return the gift, but Kanika and her mother insisted. They said that she could not possible refuse this or anything they gave for her upcoming nuptials. The other village girls couldn’t help but feel envious at Lakshmi’s good fortune.
“Lakshmi, tell me everything. What did you wear? What does he look like? Is he tall, dark and handsome?” Kanika questioned in rapid fire. As she learned he was a businessman from Kochi, Kanika madam stopped to think. She hadn’t heard of him or even the company he was an executive for, but of course, she reasoned that Kochi was such a big city and what would she
know anyway. She was just a pretty thing and didn’t really bother herself with the business world despite being dragged around by her parents from one soiree to another. Business was for Kanika madam’s father and her brothers. She was a socialite. As Kanika madam inquired, Lakshmi thought to herself that perhaps one day she too would bump into Kanika madam at one of these so-called “swarays.”
The girls slowly moved on to one of their favorite topics, Mills & Boon type stories. The girls naughtily discussed how Lakshmi would be the first of them to experience the pleasures described in these romance novels. In fact, they felt that Lakshmi’s story was a real-life fairy tale. All the girls giggled together and blushed as Kanika madam pulled out one of these romance books and read a steamy passage she had tabbed. The girls were too innocent to know the full meaning behind these words or what emotions were being evoked, but the passion described in the novels seemed so magical that they couldn’t wait for the day that they experienced such pleasures.
~
That date for Lakshmi’s engagement was determined by the village mystic. It was the upcoming Saturday. Very soon. Lakshmi’s family had been instructed not to worry about the typical formalities that the bride’s family traditionally was responsible such as the rings, gifts of fine clothing, food and anything of that nature. Trisha and Rani assembled at Devi’s house ahead of the event of the season, advising mother and daughter ahead of the most talked about event in their village.
As advised, Lakshmi continued the prescription of turmeric face and body masks as well as coconut oil in her hair. The night before, Rani had come in again and painted Lakshmi’s delicate nails that had been disallowed from being exposed to
any household chores since the announcement. Lakshmi had also been instructed to take things easy while working at the cardamom farm.
The day of, Lakshmi washed and Rani generously massaged delicate amounts of coconut oil over her body, hands and face. Her mother applied the Gangalee oil she had prepared on the scent spots as she had done previously and added a splash in Lakshmi’s thick locks.
Lakshmi’s grandmother watched from afar as Lakshmi got ready. She had kept her wedding sari that she hadn’t even let her own daughter wear for Lakshmi with the hopes that she would wear it on this important day. But now she silently worried it wouldn’t meet the standards of Vishnu and his family. Even though she was initially pleased with the news, she secretly worried how Lakshmi would manage in a household so different from theirs. Unlike others, she was also not convinced that Vishnu had really changed from his childhood days, but she kept these thoughts to herself. To reassure herself, she reminded herself that, “At least Lakshmi can escape this small prison we women have been living in from one generation to the next. Our Lakshmi, dear sweet, innocent flower. From the outside she looks so dainty, but she is a strong warrior like me. Not like her mother at all. She will be more than fine. Prayers for my sweet child. Protect her, Goddess Lakshmi.”
“Wow, wow, look at this sari. Kanika madam has such taste. How fortunate to be gifted this at this opportune time. You are going to look even more stunning than the last time they saw you,” Rani exclaimed, hiding her envy with a big false smile and forced excitement. In that moment, Lakshmi’s grandmother hid away her wedding sari that was dull and cheap looking in comparison to the one gifted by Kanika madam.
“Hahn, Rani. This small village girl has transformed into a true queen. No other has matched her beauty in decades since,” Trisha replied. Rani nodded gleefully at that comment, feeling the sting of what she saw as a falsehood as she stood there, just as pretty. Just as fair. It should have been her if not for her short hair.
Secretly, Trisha hoped that this was just a cruel joke being played out by the wealthiest family of the village and that Lakshmi was still just entertainment. She hoped that they would humiliate Lakshmi today and Devi and Lakshmi would come home crying in disgrace. Trisha would then swoop in and save her best friend’s daughter and the family’s dignity by offering up her son, Krishna, as a suitable alternative. “All in good time. Patience. Patience, Trisha,” Trisha thought holding out hope.
Devi and Trisha busily worked to tie Lakshmi’s sari, this time revealing just a bit more of her midriff to keep Vishnu interested. They adorned Lakshmi with the beautiful pendant and chain that Kanika madam had gifted her and some teardrop earrings that Krishna picked up from the store when he was tasked to get the gajra again, but this time for the engagement.
Lakshmi’s father sat with Lakshmi’s brother and cousin brother playing a game of carrom. He was overjoyed at the prospect of his daughter getting married. Finally, she would settle down in her own family’s house and no longer be a burden on them. He was anxious, however, of all the upcoming and sudden costs that they would have to take on. The dowry that Vishnu’s family would demand would be far greater than a prospect from their class would ever demand. If they could not fulfill the dowry, he was concerned that Vishnu’s family would turn down his daughter and this would bring irreversible shame unto his family.
“Look at how this foolish peacock strutted his feathers when the village elder called for his daughter’s hand in marriage,” the villagers would say.
“He was so proud and had his nose up held so high in the air, but he should have thought of his status as a laborer. No match for the wealthy,” they would go on.
“Who would have these spoiled goods now? They should have not accepted such an invitation, but they were so vain. A pretty girl she is, but that cannot hide her poverty and dismal upbringing,” they would shamelessly say directly to his face if the engagement went sour.
Devi, on the other hand, was no longer worried. She had quietly consulted the village mystic upon receipt of the invitation and the mystic had told Devi not to worry either and to have faith. She assured Devi that this girl was going to shine so bright that nothing could possibly hold her back. She advised, however, that Devi should tie a black string around her daughter’s left foot’s little toe before going to the engagement in addition to putting a discrete black mark behind Lakshmi’s ear.
“You don’t want people seeing the mark to ward off their evil eye. This little gesture will protect your daughter and everything will go successfully. I only see success. Absolute success. And with their union, even more success in her future. Don’t worry, Devi. Have I ever been wrong?” the village mystic told Devi with a confident smile. Devi blindly believed in the village mystic as many in the village did. The village mystic had always been right and if it wasn’t for her advising Devi on the special potions to drink and prayers to conduct, Devi would never have conceived Lakshmi in the first place.
In addition to this, the village mystic also sold Devi a special potion that Devi and not Lakshmi had to drink at the first sight
of the moon every night from the night before the engagement and all up to the day of Lakshmi’s marriage. She warned that if Devi did not do this religiously, then there could be delays or bad consequences that could affect Lakshmi’s marriage prospects. In Devi’s mind, this was a small price to pay to secure her daughter’s future.
“There is no way my daughter is not going to marry into that family and get out of this pathetic village. She was born a beauty and has been our family’s lucky charm. I will not disappoint our deities. No money, no ritual, no nothing is going to stop us from realizing this dream for our sweet daughter,” she thought to herself with full gumption.
~
The blush pink sari perfectly complemented Lakshmi’s complexion and she looked so elegant. She looked like an upper-class woman gracing the needy as she walked past curious villages who crowded her and her parents as they climbed into the pick-up. Lakshmi was more nervous this time around as she felt more was at stake. Although she knew she looked stunning, she had to continue to charm and please them. One slip and the opportunity could be taken away from her. She reminded herself that she was naturally charming, but she separately worried about the dowry demands that Vishnu’s family would have. She worried about the burden her marriage would bring to her parents.
This guilt subsided quickly as her thoughts wondered to the fantastic opportunities she would have once she moved to Kochi. She could easily use her femininity and natural wit to charm Vishnu into helping out her parents with the dowry payments. In the small glimpse the two had exchanged that day, Lakshmi felt Vishnu’s kind and generous soul through his deep hazel brown
eyes. She felt at ease now, reminiscing over their short, dreamy exchange and as usual, she was lost in her thoughts and hadn’t realized that they had arrived.
“Lakshmi, Lakshmi! Child, wake up! Let’s go, we’re here now,” Devi sternly said in a hushed tone as she tapped Lakshmi’s shoulder. Devi did so as quietly as she could but enough to jolt Lakshmi back to reality. Devi was always amazed at how easily Lakshmi went into her dream world, especially on a day like today and with Vishnu and his family standing right at the front of the house to welcome them into their grand house.
Gayatri had her trusty puja plate out and ready. “My future daughter-in-law, you look absolutely stunning in that beautiful pink sari. My son is a very lucky man. May you both be happy and may evil never touch either of you,” Gayatri said as she proceeded to mumble prayers and then she ushered the family into their house. Lakshmi walked in, remembering to enter with her right foot which was considered auspicious. Gayatri noticed and was pleased by Lakshmi’s attention and devotion to their religious customs. Gayatri then directed them to the Tulsi plant that sat in the center of the courtyard, a fixture for several generations now. She asked Lakshmi to pour water from a silver pot to feed the sacred plant as Gayatri and the household sang a Hindu prayer. Once the prayers and rituals were completed, the family settled into the living / dining room.
~
This time Lakshmi was seated right next to Vishnu on the sofa amongst large pleated maroon cushions, encased in decorative silk covers, embroidered with colorful bird scenes. The sofa’s fabric was so gentle on Lakshmi’s skin. She hadn’t noticed during her first visit due to her nerves, but today she sank into them. They were a stark comparison to the hard, but versatile
woven cots they sat on, ate on, dried chilies on, and at night, slept on, in their home.
“Vah, what a couple they make. Picture perfect. Don’t you all agree? I’ve never seen a better-looking union,” Gayatri exclaimed as she smiled towards Ramdev, Ramdev’s father, and the extended family. Devi and her husband nodded their heads in agreement, with Arvind smiling in unison, but dreading the questions around dowry to come.
Ramdev stepped into the conversation in that moment, “Now that we have a bride for Vishnu, we need to make arrangements for the wedding. Gayatri consulted the village mystic and she has checked their horoscopes. This match is perfect, but the wedding must take place soon. She indicated that next month will be most auspicious. The wedding should take place on the Thursday in early October between the hours of six and nine in the morning.” Ramdev was a no non-sense type of guy and managed the discussions around marriage as if it were one of his many business dealings.
Devi and her husband listened intently, pleased with the suggestion but also anxious with the tight timeline. It would be wonderful to have their dear sweet daughter settled into her new family before Diwali. Lakshmi would then celebrate the occasion in style in her new household. However, the stressful matter of the dowry hadn’t yet been broached.
Lakshmi’s parents had discussed on end how they would borrow the money and pay the dowry off by working extra shifts and jobs, but they hadn’t realized the pressure of the situation until these marriage discussions with the wealthiest family in the village were now taking place. They didn’t dare to contest the timing or make any suggestions that could possibly upset the groom’s family. They couldn’t face the backlash if Vishnu’s family became upset and broke off the engagement in that
moment. That would leave their daughter and their family disgraced. The thought of the dowry demands made Lakshmi’s father sweat. Despite his efforts, it was visible that he was experiencing discomfort even with the not-so-subtle stares Devi shot at her husband to get ahold of himself for the sake of his daughter.
Seeing his son’s future father-in-law break out into a sweat, Ramdev said, “Brother, we can absolutely understand that this is very short notice. Vishnu is a busy city business man, and planning around this auspicious day with him having only a few holidays, has been tricky on our end. Given the short time frame, we think it best that these two start their married journey soon. And as to the big question of dowry, let me reassure you, we have no expectation to receive anything from your family. We are a modern family and we are already taking your most precious possession, your lovely daughter, Lakshmi.”
Devi and her husband’s jaws dropped in surprise at the suggestion. They looked at each other in disbelief and then at their daughter’s face, then back to each other. They couldn’t believe the good news they were hearing. They both thought to themselves, “This girl is truly our lucky charm. How incredible.”
“Brother, you have no idea how relieved we are. But if there is anything, please, please, do not hesitate to let us know what we can do,” Lakshmi’s father went on to reply with his hands in a namaste position and with his head bowed down in deep respect to Ramdev, Gayatri, the village elder and the remaining family members. “We are ever so grateful for your kindness.”
“There is one condition to the marriage, however,” Gayatri interrupted Arvind. In that moment, their hearts dropped as Lakshmi and her parents felt numb as their fears returned. “Our sweet boy, Vishnu, loved Lakshmi’s special cardamom tea. It was simply delicious, however, that won’t be enough to satisfy
his needs in Kochi. Lakshmi, for the next few weeks as you get ready for the wedding, you will need to learn to cook for my son the way he likes his food prepared. Cook and I will supervise your training and it will be best you leave your job at the cardamom estate immediately and come stay with us for that time.”
This request was highly unusual and unexpected. Devi and her husband hesitantly nodded in acceptance. It wasn’t heard of that a future daughter-in-law would stay at her in-laws’ home before marriage. They didn’t want Lakshmi’s honor to be tainted if anything happened during that time. They didn’t want to say anything in case that would further jeopardize Lakshmi’s chances.
Realizing the concern from Lakshmi’s parents’ faces, Gayatri then said, “Okay, okay. I am sure you want all the time with your daughter before she marries our son and goes off to live in her 3 BHK in Kochi. How about we have our driver pick her up every day and drop her off every evening. But now with one month left before the wedding, however, she will have to stop working at the cardamom farms. She is our daughter now and cannot be seen working at a farm.”
This compromise was appealing to Devi and her husband. They were overjoyed by the kindness and insightfulness of Ramdev and Gayatri. Their daughter was set to marry the wealthiest family in their village in the outskirts of Idukki and her journey would take her directly to a luxurious waterfront home on Marine Drive in the big city. The parents were more than ecstatic, but also wondered why their daughter would need to learn to cook when they would have a maid in Kochi to do so. They dismissed this, rationalizing that every real Indian woman should be able to prepare meals for her husband.
The evening wrapped up with a lavish dinner of delicious Indian vegetarian food, but also an unusual dish. To be polite, Devi’s father was about to dish out a bit for himself, but Ramdev stopped him.
“Brother, no, no. This is specially made only for Vishnu. He knows better, but living in Kochi, he has developed a liking for seafood,” Ramdev said seeing the perplexed face of Lakshmi’s father. “Don’t worry, Cook and Gayatri will teach Lakshmi all she needs to know to make this. She must adjust to the higher society in Kochi and learn dishes like this Kerala fish fry.”
Although taken aback by Vishnu’s sacrilegious diet, Lakshmi’s parents understood that Vishnu was of an elite class and his ways would, of course, be different as he was an esteemed businessman in the big city. They had watched in the Tollywood films and understood that their village ways were far different from those of the less conservative, cosmopolitan city folk. They had to accept that their daughter would have to make these small sacrifices for the sake of a very comfortable future.
After dinner, they retired to the living area of this grand room. It felt like the Taj Mahal in comparison to their small dwellings. Gayatri requested Lakshmi, her future daughter-in-law, to make her special cardamom tea for everyone. Between sips and pecks at delicious butter cookies, they discussed the wedding ceremonies that we going to take place over four days. Gayatri took charge as this was her area of expertise. She told Ramdev that this would be an extravagant affair as Vishnu was her only son and she had one chance for a grand, memorable gesture that the villagers would talk about for years to come. Ramdev was more than happy to step aside and only focus on the finance aspect. From his perspective, he too wanted a lavish wedding to rub his brother Ravi’s nose in it.
Given the wealth dynamics and the lack of dowry demands, Lakshmi’s family really didn’t have much input and were fine to oblige. Having the burden of the dowry off the table, they could breathe much more easily and were enjoying the conversations much more now.
The engagement was simple and did not involve a lot of pomp and circumstance. After the tea and butter cookies, Gayatri presented two solid 24K rings. Lakshmi and Vishnu had largely been silent as their parents discussed matters around their wedding and when the plans seemed to solidify, Gayatri ushered the two to exchange rings.
This would be the first time Lakshmi would feel Vishnu’s touch. She took a deep breath and held it as he took her hand in hers and put the ring on her ring finger. Lakshmi’s cheeks went a blush pink, matching the sari’s color she adorned and she demurely smiled. As he held her hand, she felt a spark throughout her body as it came alive. She felt a happiness she had never felt before and could not make sense of the feeling. She couldn’t wait to tell Rani all about her engagement and this unusual sensation she felt. Next, Lakshmi took Vishnu’s ring that Gayatri had so graciously provided, and placed it on Vishnu’s ring finger. And with that, Lakshmi and Vishnu were engaged. The two families rejoiced over sweets and had Cook take multiple pictures of the family to memorialize this joyous moment.
~
The village was buzzing with the wedding news, which had spread like wild fire. Trisha and Rani had told their close friends. Then those close friends told theirs, and from there everyone started telling theirs until the full village knew. It had even reached the ears of Kanika madam and her family. And then,
the best news for all. The whole village had been invited to the wedding, which the villagers knew was sure to be a lavish affair.
The first work day after the engagement, Lakshmi and her mother took a break to privately speak with Kanika madam and her mother with dual intentions. First, they wanted to informally extend a wedding invite to their family more as a gesture, knowing that such elite were unlikely to attend a villagers’ wedding. Even the village elder and his family stood far below status in comparison to Kanika madam and her family. They had unbelievable old money wealth that would last generations and could feed the nation. Secondly, they wanted to tell them that this would be Lakshmi’s last day of service.
“Oh wow, Lakshmi. Congratulations! Thank you for the invite,” Kanika madam said and surprised Lakshmi with a warm embrace.
“Yes, and we understand that you must leave us now. So many young village girls I’ve seen married off, but never any moving to Kochi. Just know that you and your mother will always have a place with us if you ever wish to return. We have known your family for a very long time,” Kanika’s mother said.
Lakshmi and her mother didn’t stay too long as not to inconvenience them, but were very happy from their response. They profusely thanked their employers and let them know how gracious they were as the wedding had materialized so quickly. Before leaving, Devi again insisted that they attend their wedding, more so out of obligation and formality than anything else.
~
When they left, Kanika heard her parents talk, well more her mother chattering away at her father. “These poor girls get
married so young, but what other future does a girl like her have. Lakshmi’s family is lucky though that they didn’t ask for a dowry. Very, very lucky. I was afraid they had come here to beg for help from us, for a loan they’ll never pay back. At least one less burden for that family,” Kanika madam overheard her mother say.
Thinking about that, Kanika thought how lucky Lakshmi was to meet her prince charming at such a young age and be empowered to build her own family life. She too longed to escape as she was so tired of being her mother’s barbie doll and to discover herself away from her.
Her mother had always been strict with her, while her brothers had free range. She never scolded them for all the stupid boy things they’d do. “Boy will be boys,” Kanika’s mother would say. On the other hand, Kanika had to keep a regimented lifestyle, because God forbid, she gained an ounce before the next soiree and embarrass her mother in front of her mother’s friends. It was so tiring to keep her size XS figure that wasn’t naturally hers to keep. She had a nutritionist and physical trainer who saw that every calorie and sweat bead contributed to maintaining that model thin physique that her mother could show off to her friends with.
“Palavi, when I was her age, I was even thinner than Kanika,” her mother would say, although she was now plump all around, which she blamed Kanika for as it was during the pregnancy she was carrying her that she put on that weight.
Kanika did everything to please this woman, but nothing was ever enough. During the tea afternoons, she would pretend that she wasn’t hungry and would sip her cardamom tea with no sugar although she absolutely loved eating all kinds of sweets. It was exhausting being the only daughter of such a wealthy family and ensuring that she maintained her grace and beauty.
Kanika sat there pondering what her life would be like if she too had full reign of her own household and got to eat whatever she wanted, whenever she wanted. She could let down her hair, stay out in the sun without fear that her skin would darken and become undesirable, and allow her nails to grow without the mandatory weekly manicures. She couldn’t wait to be married off and live her life, her way.
Lounging on her four-poster bed, she smiled so largely in defiance of her mother and felt pure joy. As she lay her head on the down feather stuffed pillow covered in a soft pink silk covering, she continued to smile pushing her abnormally large front teeth out. “Yes, mother. I will be able to smile like this without you harassing me that I need to practice a smaller smile. So I will look demurer and more attractive. I will find a man that will find all my awkwardnesses, attractive. Just you wait,” Kanika whispered as she slowly drifted off to sleep in her large, air-conditioned room.
~
Lakshmi was enjoying the luxury of being an engaged woman and the attention she was being showered with. Some villagers were genuinely excited for the upcoming event of the year. Others were, of course, not so happy and secretly prayed that somehow the wedding would be a bust. They took pleasure in the anticipated disgrace that would befall Lakshmi’s family.
Lakshmi, however, remained naïve to the negativity around her and was enjoying the bliss of being a bride-to-be. For the first time in her life, she no longer had to worry about fetching water from the well in the early hours of the morning. In fact, she was now forbidden to even enter her mother’s kitchen. She was prescribed full rest and that morning, she was to head up to her future in-laws’ home for her “marriage training course.”
She couldn’t sit around that morning waiting to be picked up, so she ventured out into the Gangalee fields where she lay down on a soft grassy area. She looked up to the clear sky with the sun gently kissing her skin. Her mother and Trisha would scold her for lying there now and allowing the sun’s rays to sully her glowing, fair skin, but she felt so much peace as she inhaled the fresh air surrounding her that was gently scented with the perfume of the Gangalee blossoms.
In her contentment she must have lost track of time because she suddenly heard Rani call out to her, “Lakshmi, Lakshmi, wake up. Hurry. The driver is here to pick you up. We’ve been looking everywhere for you. Let’s go. You’re late,” Rani yelled as she grabbed Lakshmi’s hand and lifted her up. The two girls sprinted back to Lakshmi’s home.
As it would happen, her mother was extremely angry at Lakshmi’s tardiness, especially given the magnitude of the situation. She couldn’t believe how lightly Lakshmi was taking this and had gone out day dreaming at such a critical time for her future.
“You may be engaged, but you cannot get lazy now. They can still toss you aside, silly girl. How can you be late on your first day? How?” Devi hollered angrily at her daughter.
Quickly, Lakshmi changed into her clothes and freshened up. They were running half an hour behind schedule already. Her mother appeased the driver with a cup of cardamom tea and tried to have him come inside and take a seat as he waiting by the car. He humbly declined to come in but took the tea.
“Even for him, our house must seem meager. He has his own quarters near that grand house of the village provided by them,” Devi thought. Devi stalled the driver as long as she could, but finally Lakshmi was ready and ran out the door. Devi and Rani
wished her the best of luck and prayed that Vishnu’s family would be forgiving. Her tardiness was certainly not a good first impression and could jeopardize this opportunity.
~
Gayatri was a stickler for punctuality and was angrily pacing back and forth outside the home, furious at Lakshmi’s lateness. She was a woman who viewed being on time as the cornerstone of etiquette. She looked at the clock and with every minute passing, grew more impatient.
“These classless village girls. Now that she’s engaged, she thinks she can do whatever the hell she likes,” Gayatri shook her head in disappointment. “Cook, Aaya, any sign of the car yet?” she yelled. When the answer was no, she grew more irate and restless. Her son was her golden boy who deserved a wife that understood the importance of regiment. She would need to set Lakshmi straight about expectations when she came. Her tardiness was inexcusable.
~
Finally, the car drove up to the front gate of the grand house. Half an hour late. Lakshmi knew that she was in for a scolding. The young girl was hopeful that her future mother-in-law would not be cross with her like her own mother was. Lakshmi knew how important today was and all through the ride up, was punishing herself for this slip.
She hadn’t meant to fall asleep in the lush fields of the Gangalee flowers. It had been so peaceful today, and she had never truly had the chance to enjoy its beauty because she was always rushing to the next chore. She prayed that this one misstep wouldn’t cost her this opportunity. She was so desperate to leave
this mundane life. This small village had trapped generations of women before her, who had no choice but to continue working on the cardamom estate. It was an endless, tireless cycle. She needed to break free and this was the only way out. She prayed hard on the ride over to Goddess Lakshmi herself, pleading with her to save her from embarrassment, however the Goddess could.
The panicked girl was about to step out, but a rich voice called out to her from the driver’s seat to stop. The driver came round and opened the door for her and said, “Madam.” Lakshmi was astonished. For the first time in her life, someone had called her “Madam.” She gently smiled at him, but her joy quickly evaporated when she saw Gayatri who frantically questioned why Lakshmi was so late.
Gayatri had started scolding Lakshmi but before she could get too far into the grilling, the driver, Vinod, stepped in. “Madam, please forgive me. I had a flat tire and had to change it. This is why we are late. Apologies, Madam,” Vinod said as he bowed his head in front of Gayatri madam. Gayatri’s rage at Lakshmi melted away suddenly as she realized her anger as misplaced. In that moment, Lakshmi turned briefly to look at Vinod, shocked by his generosity towards her. She had prepared herself to beg for forgiveness from Gayatri and now was left speechless by the driver’s kindness. She gave him a quick smile to thank him.
“Okay, okay. Next time you can call me, Vinod,” she bellowed curtly at the driver. “That’s why we have given you a cell phone. I was sick with worry. She is now my daughter and my responsibility. She is just as precious to us after my Vishnu, okay? Her every move now is a reflection of my son and this family, so I need to be informed of her movement over the next month till the wedding,” she said as she dismissed Vinod.
Vinod nodded dutifully and walked back to the car. As he walked away, Lakshmi admired his silhouette not having noticed him during the car ride over. Although he was dark in complexion, he had striking features and was perhaps eight or ten years older than her. He had a strong jawline and wavy, thick black hair. She had no idea why he had showed her such kindness in that moment and thanked Goddess Lakshmi for sending her a savior in the guise of Vinod. She couldn’t wait to tell her mother when she got home and made a promise to herself that she would never be late again.
~
The training that took place over the course of the month ahead of the wedding was quite intense. Not only did it involve learning to cook Vishnu’s favorite dishes that Lakshmi had never even heard of, but also how to dress, what jewelry and make up to use, how to address businessmen and their wives and more skills that Lakshmi would never need in this small village. Gayatri was well aware of the challenges that Lakshmi would face having never been in elite social circles. She knew she had to drill in as many lessons as she could before the wedding as many of her son’s business counterparts would be coming to the wedding. She remembered how steep her own learning curve had been and she never had the luxury of the training she was providing to her future daughter-in-law. In Lakshmi’s eyes, Gayatri saw the same hunger that she once had when in Lakshmi’s position. She thought to herself, “The village mystic is right. This girl is the best choice and eager to learn. She is very charming, but I need to teach her to speak up more and know when to. She is no longer a field hand in some else’s cardamom estate, but off to become one of the most powerful wives of Kochi elite.”
~
Lakshmi was indeed a quick and astute learner. In the kitchen, she vigilantly observed Cook as she taught her how to debone fish, how to peel skin off chicken thighs, and how to marinate goat, all for the first time having been a strict vegetarian her entire life. Despite hailing from the priest class, the family had made this exception for Vishnu. They ignored that he ate the flesh of animals, which was against the tenets of their religion. They reasoned that he was allowed to, one because he was a man and two it was needed to fit in around the rich and famous in Kochi. Alas, that is what God had willed after all.
At first, Lakshmi gagged at the smell and touch of meat but she soon grew used to it but vowed to Goddess Lakshmi never to eat it herself. Early on in her trainings, she sat with her mother and Trisha one evening and told them about her day with Cook. She told them how she was made to cook meat and that she abhorred the smell left on her hands after handling the slimy flesh. She felt it was an abomination to eat nonvegetarian and she desperately wanted to tell her future mother-in-law, who she affectionately called “Maa ji” that she couldn’t and didn’t want to do it anymore. Devi was equally appalled that they were teaching her to cook meat. She nodded in agreement with her daughter, but Trisha stepped in with her unsolicited counsel.
“Devi, Lakshmi,” she said as she stared intently first at Devi, then at Lakshmi before continuing. “These rich people are different from us.” She took an intentional pause, then said, “Our gods don’t judge them in the same way they judge people of our level. Vishnu is a wealthy man who lives in Kochi. It is a big city with different customs. Gayatri madam is only trying to teach you those ways so you can adjust now and and not be shocked when you move. The big city is very different, child.
Don’t quarrel now. It will do you well to keep quiet and you will benefit in the long run. Once you are married and your life with Vishnu is stable, you can slowly change the ways of your husband.”
As Trisha explained, Devi listened, slowly nodding in agreement. She admired how her friend held such wisdom and worldly views, even though they both were only a few months apart in age and lived similar lives in this small village.
And for the next month, the training to shape Lakshmi into the model wife of a prestigious Kochi businessman continued. It involved exhausting and tiresome days. And Lakshmi was never late again after the first day’s mishap. She never wanted to experience that feeling of dread of nearly having destroyed her only chance to leave this measly village and a life with limited opportunities. If it hadn’t been for Vinod stepping in, that may very well have been it for Lakshmi. She was so grateful for his generosity and still couldn’t understand why he had been so kind towards her. As he bussed her to and from her home, she would catch Vinod’s gaze occasionally in the rearview mirror and they would exchange quick smiles. He had this twinkle in his deep brown eyes that was so endearing. When she got out of the car, on occasion, her hand would brush lightly against his and she felt a warmth in her body. Some nights she would catch herself dreaming of him, then would scold herself for thinking of another man. Yet, she looked forward each day to these small interactions with Vinod and just couldn’t understand why her heart fluttered so much in his presence. Perhaps it was the absence of Vishnu. Perhaps it was part of becoming a woman and her limited experience around men.
~
In the week leading up to the wedding, the village’s designated
event space transformed into a grand wedding venue for the largest nuptial celebrations the villagers had ever had. Everybody had been invited. Everybody but the untouchables, of course. Separate wedding favors had been arranged to be dispatched to their families ahead of the big day. No one wanted to see their disgusting beings on such a joyous occasion, even those who willed the wedding to fail.
Prior to the wedding day, Gayatri invited Devi and Trisha over to view Lakshmi’s fitting with the stylist. Several outfits she had been chosen with the stylist who she had invited from a nearby, more metropolitan-like town. In her mind, Gayatri anticipated at least ten dress changes over the four-day affair. Trisha had advised Devi not to provide any input into the process and that she should appear grateful even when she disagreed with the style choices. After all, the groom’s family was spending their money on the entire, lavish affair.
“They are so noble. They know how beautiful your daughter is and what a wonderful match she makes for their only son. I know you’ve always dreamed of choosing your daughter’s wedding dress, but we should be happy that they understand your position,” Trisha advised her friend. Despite all her encouragement, Trisha had a faint hope that the wedding would not go through, and she could still swoop in and take Lakshmi as her own daughter-in-law. The way the events were proceeding, however, her hope started to dim and she diverted her attention to fully help her best friend’s daughter, Lakshmi.
Gayatri was very nit-picky about everything that the stylist showed them. She kept harping on about how the clothes had to be perfect and of the most expensive material as many of her son’s high class business associates would be coming to the celebrations. Although she had never met any of these people or even visited her son in Kochi, his stories of over-the-top parties
and dinners made her uneasy and insecure. She didn’t want to disappoint her son in any way and so spent imprudently on every aspect of the wedding.
She had spent hours, if not days, flipping through wedding magazines she had ordered from surrounding towns to see the latest trends in fashion and demanded that the stylist show her only those, no matter what their cost. She yelled at the stylist and told him that when her one and only son would arrive for the wedding in a couple days, he should be ready with the finest silk dhotis, sherwani, shirts and a tuxedo for the reception. Devi and Trisha were silent as mice during these heated moments as Gayatri talked at the patient stylist, listing her never-ending demands. The two women were in awe of the word “taksheedo”, never having heard it before, but it sure sounded very expensive, especially since Gayatri had demanded that Vishnu was to have the finest one, specially fitted, for the reception on the final day of the celebrations.
~
Ahead of the wedding, Vishnu arrived with all pomp and circumstance. He had a grand marching band introduce his arrival. Again, he came in that classy Hero Honda and stepped out decked out in western wear. He looked taller than before in his tight dark blue jeans and Ralph Lauren polo shirt. On his wrist, he wore a watch with a large face that looked pricy and branded. He greeted his mother who dutifully stood with a large grin and her pooja plate, so smitten and proud of her son. His eyes were shaded by oversized sunglasses and his hair slicked back with grease in his usual style. After his mother’s blessings, he proceeded to greet his other family members and then, they all disappeared into their grand house as the villagers flocked
around to catch a glimpse of this star-studded, Tollywood-esque star.
~
The four days of celebrations were an exhausting affair for the groom and bridal parties and their immediate families. The whole village had been invited (except, the untouchables) and the groom and bride had to greet every single guest as the couple sat on the large stage erected in the middle of the village center and decorated with tulle and all sorts of in-season blossoms.
In particular, Gayatri was sure to include the Gangalee blossoms, not only because they showed off their local pride but because she knew these were her daughter-in-law’s favorite flowers. As each guest approached the couple, they handed them gifts, envelopes of money, and some just brought their blessings not able to afford much else.
Everyone had their cleanest and best outfits on during those days. Sparklers were handed out to the children and there was an unending spread of food and snacks, while guests enjoyed lively music and dance performances. Given the size and with no expense spared, the whole event truly felt like a momentous festival honoring the Hindu Gods. The villagers chattered, curious when Vishnu’s fellow dignitaries would attend the wedding, but none of them seemed to have showed up on any of the days.
“Strange that Vishnu’s business friends are not attending,” Vandana, the village gossip squawked.
Trisha shut down such gossip any chance she could and any rumors discrediting her best friend’s daughter and future son-in-law. She would justify their absence by replying, “Of course not. Why would they travel all the way from Kochi to this
small village on the outskirts of Idukki. They are used to certain luxuries that we cannot provide. It’s common sense.” However, Trisha couldn’t help but think the same. “Why hasn’t anyone from Kochi come to attend.”
Devi was grateful for Trisha’s friendship and strength she showed in these moments. She too had started to feel the same reservations that the villagers had voiced, but these faded away with Trisha’s reassurances.
~
The wedding day, the third of the four-day festivities, was just as action packed as the first two. The families never really had a single moment to themselves. There was always something to do or a guest to take care of. It wasn’t just the families not having any room to stop and think, but the couple didn’t have any interaction during the entire festivities. Constantly, someone was around them, whether it be some family friends or children playing around them or insisting on sitting on their laps.
In fact, the couple hadn’t ever spoken to one another. They had only spoken through their families. Lakshmi could only recall that glance she had exchanged with Vishnu, though quick, on the interview day. During their engagement, they were sat next to each other for most of that evening but didn’t talk to one another. Again, the families were always present and doing the communicating for them. She didn’t know anything about her husband, except what Gayatri, Cook or another member of Vishnu’s household had told her. His bullying and terrorizing of students and animals during the school days had long been forgotten. All was now forgiven as he had grown up and become such a powerful and well-respected city man.
As she got ready that morning for her dawn wedding, Lakshmi was nervous as it would be her first time ever with Vishnu, alone on their wedding night. Her mother and Trisha had warned her that she may not enjoy her first time with him and that over time she would learn to please her husband in ways he enjoyed most. Lakshmi wasn’t exactly sure what that meant. All she had was that momentary spark her and Vishnu had shared during the interview day and imagined that their first night would be dreamy like the passages in the Mills & Boon novels. She couldn’t wait to feel those sensations so descriptively painted in those romance novels that Kanika madam would share with her and the other girls over afternoon tea. Her fears of being with a man receded as the thought of being in the romantic embrace of her man. Excitement replaced her anxieties.
Rani was over at Lakshmi’s helping her get ready for her wedding. She felt a bit of a sting that her friend was getting married first and would escape this small village so young. Plus, she couldn’t help but feel envy as her best friend was marrying into the most prestigious family in the village and despite Lakshmi’s family being so below Vishnu and his family’s social status. Life had always been unfair for Rani after her mother had passed. Despite all the heavy feelings, Rani compartmentalized them so at least she could enjoy the pleasures of the celebrations.
Rani felt fortunate to be dressed in a delicate green crepe sari. It was the prettiest outfit she had ever worn or even owned. Gayatri had gifted it to her as Lakshmi’s future mother-in-law had done so for all of Lakshmi’s family and closest friends that were part of the bridal party. She wanted everyone at her son’s wedding and in the wedding photographs and video to look at least respectable, even if she couldn’t control their lack of class and manners that came naturally from good breeding. For Rani,
though, she saw it as an opportunity to perhaps snag one of Vishnu’s rich Kochi friends. She was disappointed when none had come, but yet marveled at how beautifully she cleaned up. A queen just as in her name.
When Devi and Trisha stepped out, the girls giggled over Lakshmi’s impending wedding night. Rani swirled around in her sari and pretended to be Lakshmi swooning at the picture frame with Vishnu’s photo. As they had seen in countless romance song numbers in the Tollywood movies, Rani pantomimed a shy bride teasing her husband with a Gangalee blossom and luring him into their bed, where they would officially become husband and wife. Lakshmi’s cheeks flushed in embarrassment at Rani’s mischief, and they both erupted into loud laughter. Devi and Trisha overhead the contentment and silently smiled at one another over the girls’ playfulness and chattered to one another about their own wedding nights.
~
In the distance, they heard the drums, the clarinets, and the trumpets blasting a festive wedding tune as the groom’s party approached the bride’s home. Trailing behind, a hand-carved ornate doli covered in Gangalee blossoms was carried by four village men. This carriage would take Lakshmi to the village temple where Vishnu and her would take their marriage vows. Lakshmi’s brother had raced out toward the white mare with her mane braided with a scarlet ribbon and the groom atop, trotting towards their house. A huge crowd of the groom’s family and villagers were vibrantly dancing in front of the horse as they slowly made their way to the entrance of Lakshmi’s home.
Lakshmi was ready in her beautiful, heavy, gold embroidered deep red silk sari. The embroidery showed imagery of golden peacocks in a field and had been specially ordered by Gayatri
from Kochi. Lakshmi wore the aum pendant that Kanika madam and her mother had given her and an extremely weighty 24 karat gold necklace and earrings set that Gayatri had loaned her from her own collection.
Lakshmi’s bridal outfit alone had to be at least 10 kilograms, the heaviest garment she had ever worn. A make-up artist had been sent to the house in the early hours to apply camera ready make-up on Lakshmi. She felt as if she had at least a kilo of foundation on her face and the make-up certainly aged her by at least five years. Her lips were heavily marked in a deep red tone matching her outfit and her hands and feet were covered in intricate henna designs with Vishnu’s name hidden within. Underneath her petite coat skirt, she had the most slender and comfortable golden bridal shoes, also specially ordered from a luxury, high street boutique on Mahatma Gandhi Road in Kochi. For the first time in her life, Lakshmi was all dolled up and felt like a princess.
Before stepping outside into the doli, she joined her mother, her grandmother, Trisha, Rani and the other present family members to pray and give thanks to the Goddess Lakshmi herself for blessing this family of such meager means that hailed from this small village in the outskirts of Idukki. Lakshmi was in such disbelief at her good fortune that Goddess Lakshmi had bestowed on her, specially praying thanks and gratitude to the mighty goddess. And at that point, she realized that it was the last time she would be her mother and father’s child. The next time she would return, she would return as a married woman, now belonging to Vishnu and his family.
~
The groom’s wedding party arrived with all pomp and circumstances at Lakshmi’s family’s gate. It was rare to have a
baraat procession by the groom where they lived, but it was all the rage in Kochi to have ostentatious ceremonies like this as part of the wedding.
Vishnu was mounted on a white mare wearing a cream sherwani with gold embroidery and bejeweled with tiny crystals. He wore a matching turban over his greased back hair. He stayed atop of the horse as Gayatri, Ramdev and the family were greeted by Lakshmi’s parents and extended family. The village elder was already at the temple, not able to make the journey with the baraat.
The two families joined together and exchanged pleasantries. Devi did a small pooja and gave them boxes of Mysore pak prepared by Cook that Vinod had dropped off the day before. The whole village was gathered around Lakshmi’s house now, waiting to see the bride. A veiled Lakshmi, accompanied by Devi and Trisha with Rani in tow, walked towards the doli, where Lakshmi was helped into and seated.
Without delay, the groom’s family danced on to the temple, and Lakshmi, now in her doli was carried by her brother, cousin-brother, Arvind and Krishna, while Devi, Trisha, Rani, and Lakshmi’s grandmother trickled behind the procession along with the rest of the village dancing furiously. Everyone was in good cheer and the little children were weaving in and out, with many running by the doli trying to capture a glimpse of a most stunning bride.
“Look what a little bit of wealth can do. She looks like a Tollywood actress in all that fine clothing and expensive jewelry,” one of the village women exclaimed in excitement at Lakshmi’s transformation.
“Unbelievable they chose Lakshmi. Yes, she is a very attractive girl, but she comes from the labor class. Devi must have
performed some black magic to blind Gayatri,” one of the mothers of a jilted candidate interjected.
The parade continued onwards to the temple. Some were high in spirit, happy to have the day to just delve into joyous pleasantries and indulgences. Others were seething in jealousy and finding fault with everything and anything happening that day. And others, ambivalent to the wedding of Lakshmi and Vishnu, were just glad that they would have yet another day of delicacies.
~
At the temple, the mandap was decorated with light orange silk drapes creating a canopy, along which marigolds, Gangalee and jasmine blossoms added a vivaciousness and loud bursts of color marking this momentous and joyous occasion. The bride and groom with their families sat in a circle around the sacred fire, where the high priest read old Hindu scriptures and performed the ceremony to bind their souls for seven lives.
A knot was tied using Vishnu’s stall and Lakshmi’s sari, and the two completed seven rounds around the fire. The high priest read more scriptures then signaled Vishnu to place the manglasutra around Lakshmi’s neck, an auspicious thread binding them in matrimony. He then applied sindoor, a red sacred powder, to Lakshmi’s hair parting symbolizing her forever bond to Vishnu and marking her officially as a married woman. When Vishnu proceeded to do so, he lifted Lakshmi’s veil, uncovering her to the crowds gathered around for the nuptials. A loud gasp could be heard in the room as they looked on to a most captivating beauty.
“A flower born amongst weeds,” a villager could be heard saying.
With a few more scripture readings and ceremonies, Vishnu and Lakshmi were declared married. With that, everyone erupted in cheers, whistling and clapping. A chaotic line of villagers quickly formed to congratulate the newlyweds and feed them yet more sweets and bestow more gifts upon them. The villagers then quickly moved to the stalls of lavish food that had been arranged for them. There were all sorts of delicious appetizers like papdi chaat, vegetable pakodas, but also a variety of kebabs, both veg and non-veg. The spread for the entrees was just as plentiful, with not just the traditional vegetarian dishes but Kerala fish fry, mutton curry, and chicken biryani. Fresh dosas and breads were being served. To top the meal off, guests had a wide variety of desserts to choose from, including a three-tier eggless wedding cake which was highly unusual to have at a traditional village wedding. It was also quite unusual to have non-vegetarian options at a wedding of the priest class with endless open bar for the guests. Kingfisher beer, Johnny Walker whiskey, and a variety of mixed drinks.
“I guess standards are different when you are rich. The same rules just don’t apply, right?” a slightly angry villager from Lakshmi’s class commented, surprised by the sacrilegious offerings on the wedding day of all days.
“Hahn, can you imagine if we had meat and alcohol at our weddings? The shame our families would have to face,” another remarked.
The chatter continued, with some refusing to eat in case the vegetarian food had been tainted by the non-vegetarian food present, while others picked through the lavish vegetarian spread. Most everyone enjoyed the entertainment accompanying the food, eating more than they could and dancing to the blaring Tollywood dance numbers DJ Kochi Sahib had selected and mixed. With free-flowing alcohol, the
men were letting loose, while the women and young girls watched from afar, guarding their honor. And soon, the day turned into the afternoon, and the afternoon into the evening, with the village families enjoying more non-stop entertainment ranging from singing, dance numbers and magic tricks. Later that evening, DJ Kochi Sahib was back hyping up the night and the party continued into the wee hours, marking the most ostentatious and wild party the small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills had ever had.
~
Chapter 3 – Lust or Kaama
“The lust for comfort, that stealthy thing that enters the house a guest, and then becomes a host, and then a master.”
~ Khalil Gibran
Around 10pm, the party had stopped for a short farewell ritual where Lakshmi’s mother, father, grandmother, Trisha, Rani, brother, cousin-brother, extended family and closest friends gathered to wish Lakshmi good luck and good bye as she parted ways with her family to formally join her new family. Lakshmi embraced each of them and finally her father. With tears of joy and sadness, she left and stepped into the Hero Honda with the door held open by Vinod. Vishnu, her husband, followed her in and her father, brother, cousin and other male relatives pushed the car off as Vinod drove them to Vishnu’s ancestral home for their wedding night. The ride was a short 15 minutes, but felt like hours as there was complete silence the entire way there. Upon arrival, Gayatri, Ramdev and the whole family were gathered to greet the wedded couple into Lakshmi’s new family home. Before stepping into the house, Gayatri performed some rituals and prayers with her trusty pooja plate in hand, and then
Lakshmi toppled a pot of basmati rice with her right foot and entered Vishnu’s home, her home now, as his wife and Ramdev and Gayatri’s daughter-in-law. After a few more rituals, Lakshmi retired to her new room for her wedding night, the night she would consummate her marriage to Vishnu.
~
Instead of the traditional warm glass of milk, Gayatri had instructed Lakshmi that Vishnu had specifically asked his mother for Lakshmi’s special cardamom tea, sweetened with one teaspoon of cane sugar. Lakshmi was so smitten and pleased that her tea had made such an impression on her husband. With so much love, she prepared the tea, freshened up and then waited in their marital bed decorated with marigolds, Gangalee, and jasmine blossoms. As she waited, she admired how dark her mehndi had gotten since being applied two days ago, symbolizing the strength and deepness of their enduring love. It had been a long few days and as she patiently waited for Vishnu, she slowly drifted away into a sweet slumber, content with how wonderful the past few weeks and the wedding events had been.
In the early hours, she was woken by a slam of the door and then a smash of the bone china cup that contained her special cardamom tea on the porcelain tile floor. As she awoke, it took her a few moments to grasp what was happening. Vishnu had come back and was clearly angry.
“Why is my tea not hot, bitch?” he yelled and then slapped her. She could smell the heavy scent of alcohol on his breath and was confused by his change in demeanor.
He proceeded to grab Lakshmi and then, he held her down. He brutally lifted her petite coat dress and thrust his penis into her. She began to yell and struggled in his grasp, but he held his
hand over her mouth as he bit at her breasts and proceeded to heave himself in and out of her. There was a thick lingering smell of alcohol on his breath as he grunted as he pleasured himself. She felt sharp pains in her vagina as he tore her apart, with his breathing growing heavier and heavier. Tears rolled down Lakshmi’s cheeks.
“Uh, Uh, Bitch, Motherfucking, Bitch. So tight. So tight Uh, uh,” he exclaimed as he let out gasps of satisfaction and then in short time, came in her.
She felt a warm dirty liquid enter her. She was disgusted by the sensation in her. The experience had been terrifying and after a few moments as he emptied himself in her, he took his now limp penis out and flipped over on his back. In no time, the drunk beast had fallen into a deep slumber, snoring loudly.
Lakshmi lay there too scared to move for fear he’d wake up and hurt her again. She had never envisioned her marriage to be consummated in this frightful way. Her mother and Trisha had told her that she wouldn’t like it, but they hadn’t warned her of how awful the experience would be. The Mills & Boon passages that Kanika madam had read to them had never described such encounters between a man and a woman. They had always been so sensual and endearing. She lay there wide awake until she heard Dumki and Chumki moo and the rooster crow.
It was finally morning. She slowly got up and immediately felt pain shoot through her breasts, her back, and between her legs. She touched herself below and felt a wet, mucous substance between her legs that had sullied the bedsheets and her wedding dress. He had torn right through her and the sticky cum contained her blood. For the first time in her life, Lakshmi felt a very different fear. A fear she could not describe to anyone as she was now bound to her husband and could not disgrace her family. “Perhaps this must be how wedding nights are? My
mother and Trisha had said I would not enjoy the first night. I see now what they meant. Over time, perhaps things will get better,” a naïve Lakshmi reasoned.
The young girl nodded to herself as she sat next to the hairy, greasy beast that was her husband. At that moment, she saw him in a very different light and she was confused by the disgust she felt for him. She gathered herself and quietly headed to the bathroom to get ready and start her daughter-in-law duties. She reminded herself that she had to be grateful. She no longer had to fetch water in the early mornings or cook rice for the family or work at the cardamom estate. She had a ticket to Kochi with Vishnu and she couldn’t lose sight of that now, no matter how wretched that experience was.
She looked at herself in the mirror of the bathroom as she brushed her teeth. Her make-up had been smeared and as she undressed, she saw bruising on her body. In the silence of the morning, she filled a bucket with warm water that came directly from the tap and bathed herself, washing away the sticky cum and the blood. Unknowingly, she kept scrubbing herself, trying to cleanse herself from the horrifying night she spent for the first time with her husband, Vishnu. Her breasts had bite marks that had turned a bluish-green as had her torso. It hurt terribly between her legs.
“Lakshmi, Lakshmi beta,” she heard her mother-in-law call out to her and cut through to her. “Where are you? It’s almost 6:30 in the morning. Child, where are you?”
Lakshmi hadn’t realized that she had been just standing there in the bathroom, naked, and twenty minutes had flown by. Having snapped out of her daze, she quickly dried herself off and put on a peacock blue sari decorated with tiny pink blossoms. She applied Ponds cream to her face and body, applied a bit of kajal to her eyes, and put sindoor in her hair parting. She made sure
her sari covered her torso well so that none of the bruising could be visible. With a pink bindi, she was now ready to present herself as the perfect daughter-in-law.
There was a loud knock on the door. “Beta, this is all new for you, but even we do not take this long in the bathroom. You have responsibilities now and cannot laze around. You need to hurry up and serve breakfast while everyone gets ready,” Gayatri said as she squeezed past her daughter-in-law. “And what is this,” she continued, “How much soap have you used? We are certainly rich, but not wasteful.” Gayatri muttered under her breath as she took inventory of the bathroom.
Lakshmi felt embarrassed and hurried away to the kitchen to oversee Cook and prepare her special cardamom tea to accompany breakfast. She somehow felt safe with everyone around her more than being with just her husband. She now feared the day she would have to go to Kochi with just Vishnu.
Around the breakfast table, everyone had gathered. Everyone except Vishnu, who was still snoring away in bed. Everyone was in good spirits and teasing Lakshmi.
“My cousin-brother never sleeps past seven, but looks like he had too much of a good time last night. Isn’t that right, Lakshmi?” Shiva said, winking her way.
“Be quiet! I would never expect you to be so insolent, Shiva. Vishnu, yes, but not you Shiva,” the village elder remarked. Ramdev smiled and always enjoyed when Shiva was being openly criticized by his father instead of his son.
Lakshmi didn’t sit down the whole time and busily served up fresh dosas to every one of them. She made sure they had their tea cups full of her special cardamom tea and their plates were never empty. With a loud burp from the men, breakfast service ended.
Lakshmi tried to seek guidance from Gayatri as to whether she should serve Vishnu in the bedroom or wait till he came out. She was getting antsy as they were meant to go to her parent’s house by eleven that morning as was tradition the day after the wedding, but Vishnu had not risen yet. The minutes kept ticking, until it was nearly noon and then finally, Vishnu emerged.
“Mama, Mama, where is my breakfast? I’m hungry. I’m hungry,” Vishnu hollered like a young toddler as he went into the bathroom to freshen up.
Gayatri found her way to the kitchen where Lakshmi had been waiting. She scolded Lakshmi for not having served her son breakfast yet.
“Lakshmi beta, where is your mind today? You are not ready with Vishnu’s breakfast and I thought you and Vishnu had already gone to see your parents. It is now almost one o’clock, beta. It is your duty now to wake your husband and get him ready on time. Today it’s okay that you missed your appointment because it’s only with your parents, but when you are in Kochi, I will not be there to wake my son up for important meetings. That is your responsibility. Now, hurry up, child,” Gayatri scolded.
A dismayed, doe-eyed Lakshmi went to the bathroom and knocked, “Vishnu ji, it’s Lakshmi. I have, um, ah, your breakfast is ready. I’ve asked Vinod to be ready so we can go to my parents’ house as soon as you’re done. Then we must be back soon after to get ready for tonight’s reception,” Lakshmi meekly whispered, just audible enough for Vishnu to hear through the bathroom door.
Vishnu stepped out of the bathroom, stretching out his arms. He had only washed his face and brushed his teeth. He then did the most surprising thing. “My dear, my beauty,” he quietly whispered in her ears as he embraced her with his unbathed
body. “Last night was amazing, no?! My loins are still calling out to you. I love you and your two juicy mangos.”
Lakshmi looked up at him, confused by his affection and softness. She tried to make sense of the situation that had left her feeling so dirty and used. She thought to herself, “It must have been the alcohol that made him go wild. I was able to satisfy him at least and he appears so happy. That’s good, no? I cannot wait to tell Rani all about it.” Lakshmi reasoned in that moment that it was her inexperience with men that made her feel the way she had.
Vishnu exchanged a loving smile with her and his eyes sparkled as he held her. She turned to go set up his breakfast and he slapped her with the damp towel he had around his neck as she walked away. Shocked, she turned back to look at him and giggled, then shyly ran off towards the kitchen to bring out his meal.
Vishnu soon followed dressed now in a white dhoti and scarfed down a few dosas with sambar and coconut chutney. He quickly downed the special cardamom tea that Lakshmi had made with that one teaspoon of cane sugar, just the way he liked it. Then together with Lakshmi, Vishnu got into the car and Vinod drove them to the little shack that was now no longer Lakshmi’s home. She was a married woman and her home was with her husband, Vishnu.
~
During the ride over, Lakshmi was smitten by Vishnu’s momentary warmth in the morning. She was surprised how kind and gentle he was being, which was a sharp contrast to how he acted on their wedding night. Although the ride was not very
long, a few minutes in, Vishnu grabbed Lakshmi by her hip and drew her close to him.
His hand moved up from the small of her back and up and under her blouse. He gently squeezed her right breast and let out a sigh, then shot a smile at her. Lakshmi wrangled out of Vishnu’s grasp and playfully swatted him. Their eyes met and then Lakshmi noticed that Vinod had been watching and blushed with embarrassment.
“Motherfucker. Sisterfucker. What do you think you’re looking at? Look at the road, otherwise I’ll gouge your eyes out and you’ll be fit for nothing,” Vishnu shouted angrily at Vinod and then looked directly at Lakshmi with rage.
Vinod didn’t respond and continued on with his eyes now dead frozen on the road ahead. He hadn’t intended to look back, other than to check the road and had just happened to witness the couple’s intimacy in that moment.
Lakshmi shrunk in her seat with fright, remembering Vishnu’s anger from earlier that morning. One moment she had felt so adored and sought after by her husband, and in the next moment she felt petrified in his presence.
Fortunately, they had just arrived at her parent’s home. Devi, her father, her grandmother, Trisha, Rani, her brother, her cousin-brother and a number of close relatives and friends had gathered to greet them.
“We were expecting you hours ago, Lakshmi beta and Vishnu ji,” Devi said. “But no worries. You are newly married. We expect you both must have been caught up. Dear son-in-law, please come inside and sit here.” Devi gestured towards a cot that had been placed in their tiny yard in front of their house. Vishnu strutted forward as if a king among paupers.
They chatted over some tea and some leftover Mysore pak. Vishnu was polite enough but refused to have any tea or eat anything there. The family felt ashamed in his presence given their meager possessions. Their house was clearly not what such a successful businessman was used to, but they were just as honored that the son of the wealthiest family of the village had come to visit their humble home out of respect for their daughter, who was now his wife.
After a half hour, Vishnu told Lakshmi that it was time that they headed back as they had to get ready for the reception that night and he wanted to take a nap before and freshen up. Lakshmi obliged, although she was sad. She didn’t have much time at all to catch up with her family or didn’t even have a chance to speak with Rani.
“Hanh ji, we should get going. We will see you all tonight. We are off to Kochi then next evening and will come to see you before we are off. Love you all,” Lakshmi said and promised to spend more time that evening with all of them. Rarely in the days leading up to the wedding had Lakshmi spent any quality time with her family. She kept being whisked away at every moment and she already felt a deep sense of sadness for leaving them behind. The next day, however, she would be moving to the big city and starting a whole new chapter of her life. It was both exciting and terrifying. For the first time in her life, Lakshmi realized she would be without the support network she had known her entire life.
~
When they got home, Vishnu whisked Lakshmi into their bedroom telling his parents that they wanted to take some rest before the reception that night.
“Sure, beta. You rest. Lakshmi, I’ll need you to be here for makeup in the next hour, so don’t lose track of the time again. This is the last day. No tardiness. We don’t want to upset our guests,” Gayatri said as she sternly looked at Lakshmi.
“Yes, Maa ji,” Lakshmi replied dutifully.
When in the bedroom, Vishnu closed the door behind them and then shuttered the windows that looked out into the courtyard. Naïve Lakshmi hadn’t noticed his eagerness as she began to take off her jewelry and bangles at the vanity table. As she was unscrewing the back of her left earring, she suddenly felt him pull her into his arms and hold her tight.
“You make me so hot, Lakshmi. Sorry I got mad in the car. I cannot bear it when another man looks at you,” he handled her a bit aggressively now, more like a possession than in a loving embrace. He looked at her intently and said, “You are so beautiful. My precious little jewel. You are mine now. Forever mine.”
Lakshmi stood stiff in his arms as he stroked her hair. The stroking became intense, until one moment, he grabbed her hair and pulled it back, and kissed her exposed neck. She tried to wrangle out of his hold, but he only held her tighter. “Lakshmi, you bewitching creature. I see how men look at you,” he whispered in her ear. He turned her chin towards him, forcing her to look into his eyes. His eyes burned with rage. Tugging at the manglasutra, he said. “This will remind men that you belong to me. Understood. It’s up to you not to tempt them, do you understand me?” Like a puppet suspended from the hands of its master, she nodded slowly and obediently. Her almond eyes, wide with fear.
After what felt like forever, he let her go. “Go now. Get cleaned up and don’t you ever keep my mother waiting again. Better to
be early. I don’t like it when my sweet mother gets stressed. She has done so much for us,” he scolded her.
It took Lakshmi a quick moment to disengage from the confusing encounter. In the short while she had known him, he had changed his temperament so often she found it hard to predict how he would be next. In that moment, all she knew was she needed to escape the current situation. She swiftly gathered herself and left without taking the rest of her jewelry off. She left still wearing only her left earring. She just needed to leave.
~
Lakshmi didn’t know what to do with herself. Maa ji hadn’t expected her until the top of the hour. She couldn’t leave the house and escape to the Gangalee fields, which were so much further away from this grand house. Plus, she would have to walk through the village, which would put the gossip mill into full action wondering what a newlywed bride was doing frolicking on her own in the fields.
She felt suffocated in this enormous house and wanted so badly to sit amongst the blossoms and stare up into the sky. She wanted to understand what had transpired over the first day of their marriage. She had never been treated this way before and didn’t have any reference point as to whether this was normal or not. The way Vishnu turned hot and cold like a little child that hadn’t gotten their way or his favorite toy, bewildered her.
“Maybe this is just how wealthy men act? They’ve always had everything in the world and they might be a bit stubborn until their needs are met? I really have no experience in these matters – none of my other friends are married. My father has never spoken to my mother in that way. It must be the way of the big city men,” she thought to herself. She didn’t know where
she could go in this strange, big house to meditate. She couldn’t go back into the bedroom. Vishnu was sleeping there and she didn’t feel safe in his presence. She didn’t want to go and hide in the bathroom in case Maa ji came around and thought she was dawdling in there again.
She couldn’t go into the living area as the village elder and her father-in-law were there discussing matters with her cousin-brother-in-law, Shiva. Although she had spent the month before the wedding within these four walls, the days had been very regimented and passed by quickly. She had little to no interaction with anyone. She was never introduced to anyone but Maa ji and Cook. She didn’t know any of her in-laws wives or children. She had very limited interactions with them when she was serving their meals and had only quietly sat with them. She never had a one-on-one conversation with any one of them.
Cook was a round, jolly woman in her late fifties. She had experience working for diplomats all over India and knew how to cook cuisines from all over the world. She had finally come back to her small village to spend time with her grandchildren and took up employment at the village elder’s home. She had replaced the previous cook who had been with the family since Ramdev was a young man, but had grown to elderly to manage the demands of the household. Cook had seen Vishnu and his cousins grow up. Although Cook was a happy-go-lucky woman, she was old school and kept a strict boundary between help and master. Lakshmi was never able to crack that wall and freely engage in deep conversation with Cook. Likewise, Cook never fully took her under her wing.
The rest of the time Lakshmi had spent with Maa ji, but they also never quite reached that level of closeness that Lakshmi thought would naturally occur between a mother-law-law and her. They didn’t have any natural chemistry between them as
their personalities clashed. Upon reflection, Lakshmi realized that she was lonely in a house full of people. Anyway, how would she even bring up the interaction she experienced with Vishnu with her mother-in-law? Her mother-in-law who doted on her one and only child. She couldn’t speak candidly about how he forced himself onto her the night before (if that was the case, as Lakshmi didn’t have any experience with whether that was okay or not). No, Lakshmi didn’t think Gayatri was the person to speak to either for guidance.
Not having anywhere or anyone to go to, Lakshmi settled on a sun-drenched bench in the courtyard looking out upon the Tulsi plant. It was peaceful here and she could think in her solitude. As she sat there, she decided that she was probably just acting rashly and naively. She had only known these people a short while and she needed to be patient. Give them a chance. She had known her parents, her grandmother, her siblings, Trisha aunty, Rani and the rest of the family all her life, so of course, the relationship with them felt natural. It had been just over a month that she had been around Maa ji and after thinking some more, an even shorter time that she had known Vishnu.
“He must also need time to get to know me. He is just being protective of me as his wife. How admirable,” she smiled at that thought. “Like Grandma says, a single thread can’t make a cloth. Yes, I have much to learn about love and relationships yet.” Sitting there in the quiet, undisturbed courtyard and alone with her thoughts, Lakshmi found a sense of calm and a way forward.
~
“Lakshmi, Lakshmi beta. Where have you gotten to, now?” Gayatri called out, shattering Lakshmi’s peace.
This time, Lakshmi was waiting and ready to promptly respond to her mother-in-law. She didn’t want to give anybody, especially her mother-in-law, an opportunity to complain about her. “I’m right here, Maa ji,” she replied diligently.
She got up and then briskly walked to the room she could hear her mother-in-law summoning her from. As with the other days, a number of people in the room were waiting to get Lakshmi ready for the reception. The last night of the wild, over-the-top affair. A dazzling lengha had been chosen for the final evening. It was lilac, the color of the Gangalee blossom, which had always complemented Lakshmi’s pink hues and fair complexion. Gems were hand-stitched in throughout the gown with silver threads. As they hit the light, each one glistened. A mark of their purity and expensiveness.
“Mrs. Vishnu darling, you are going to be the talk of the town if you aren’t already,” said the make-up artist as she signaled to her assistant for the Lakme concealer, powder, highlighter and so many other cosmetic products that Lakshmi never knew even existed. “Gayatri madam, how would you like the look to be tonight?”
“Something light, but let’s make her lips pop. She is a natural beauty and too much make-up cheapens her. I think hair in curls. Leave it down,” Gaytri commanded. Then she went into the wardrobe and fished out something glinting, “And let’s put this diamond tiara on her. Tonight, and always, she is my beloved Vishnu’s queen,” Gaytri responded with such adoration for her son and his new possession.
The make-up artist nodded with a smile. Everyone in the room was in awe of the amount of money and attention that was being showered on this girl – a poor, working class girl that came from the fields of this small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills. In that very moment as she was being bejeweled, Lakshmi
felt the love and blessings of Goddess Lakshmi. She had been adorned in the most exquisite splendor she could never have even imagined. “A single thread can’t make a cloth,” she chanted to herself as she sat there. She chose not to focus on the negative interactions from earlier, in that moment. She chose to focus on all the positive blessings that Goddess Lakshmi herself was showering her with.
The make-up artist worked through the long locks of Lakshmi’s hair that Lakshmi had washed that morning. She gently undid any knots and applied a light coat of chemical hair protectant instead of the coconut oil Lakshmi’s hair had been used to all of her life. With the curling iron, Lakshmi’s hair was styled and sculpted around her oval face. Then, the sparkling tiara was anchored onto the crown of her head. As Lakshmi looked at herself in the mirror, she saw herself transform from that little skinny village girl who had picked cardamom pods most all of her life into a gorgeous, sophisticated woman. “This is how Kanika madam must feel all the time. This is just a small taste of what is to come, Lakshmi,” she said to herself as she sat there admiring herself in the mirror.
And as the make-up artist proceeded with a delicate layer of make-up, her beauty was further unlocked and she was couldn’t help but feel like one of the Femina magazine cover page models. “Vah, vah. Just wait till I finish up with the make-up. Gayatri madam, your daughter-in-law will be dynamite. There isn’t a woman in all of Kochi this stunning!” the make-up artist said genuinely.
Gayatri stood there with the utmost pride. She was so happy she was able to snag Lakshmi before she got spoiled by one of those low-level men in Lakshmi’s class. She wanted this pure flower all for her son. Gayatri smiled and replied, “Enough now, just focus
on getting her ready. Here, put some kajal to ward off the evil eye from my Vishnu’s bride.”
The make-up artist continued on, keeping the eye make-up light and playful and not heavy laden with kajal as she would typically do on other, more mainstream brides. She opted for a silver shimmering eye shadow, which uplifted Lakshmi’s eyes, letting them sparkle even brighter than ever before. For the lips, a deep rose-pink shade was applied. Lakshmi gently kissed a tissue to blot the lipstick application per the directions of the make-up artist. As in the past days, the make-up artist applied a highlighter to accentuate her naturally defined cheekbones and the curves of her face. And finally, after almost an hour and half of working Lakshmi’s hair and applying make-up, a setting spray was applied.
“Here, beta, drink this,” Gayatri said as she handed Lakshmi a glass of kesar-infused sweetened milk with a straw. “And before you get into your dress, make sure you run to the bathroom. You may not have time to eat or use the facilities. And eat some of these nuts.”
And soon evening was upon them and it was almost time for the reception. As a final step, the make-up artist and her assistant helped Lakshmi into the intricate gown that much like the wedding dress weighed at least ten kilograms. She slipped into custom-made lavender heels that matched her dress color exactly and with that, she was ready to join her husband who was now dressed in his tailored “taksheedo” for the big, final night, but now as “husband & wife.”
“Wow, he looks so very handsome in the “taksheedo”,” she thought as she smiled in disbelief to be standing next to such a sophisticated gentleman. Never in her life had Lakshmi imagined that she would transcend her social status and to do so
at such a young age. “I can forgive his small temper outbursts if it’ll mean a lifetime of luxury for me,” she reasoned with herself.
With everyone in the family dressed and ready to go, the photographer and videographer on standby began taking several shots of the multi-generational family in front of the Tulsi plant in the courtyard, then in the living room, and finally outside the mini mahal of the small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills. A horse-drawn carriage awaited the bride and groom followed by cars to transport the rest of the family in style to the reception in the village square. The procession along with the band was ready to make the short journey to the event. Gayatri had truly spared no expense. She ensured that her family would make a spectacular, jaw-dropping entrance and she could rub it in the face of the rest of Ramdev’s family who had always treated her as a lesser person because of her upbringing.
With pride, Gayatri held her head higher than she had ever before. Her only son had a bombshell of a wife. Even though Lakshmi did not come from money, Gayatri knew that every villager was astonished by Vishnu’s bride and her natural God given beauty that Gayatri used exquisite clothing and style to accentuate and reveal. She would be the subject of gossip for months and Gayatri could feel the women in her social circle already jealous, wishing they had plucked this fresh blossom for their own bachelor sons. The crop of potential brides in their social class were bumpkins in front of Vishnu’s bride.
“Sure, they can marry some woman of similar social status, but Lakshmi’s beauty will attract attention and more wealth to my Vishnu just as the village mystic has predicted. I can already feel the positive change in his future. Honey, not vinegar, will catch more flies. Vishnu’s bride is pure honey,” she thought as she sat in her expensive peacock blue sari covered in intricate embellishments and heavy embroidery which she matched with
an elegant sapphire choker, earrings and ring set. She sat there, a very proud woman and mother.
~
Vishnu couldn’t take his eyes off his stunning partner. Everyone’s eyes were focused all on her and not on him. As they sat in the carriage, paraded like a royal couple, he whispered naughty phrases into her ear of what he wanted to do to her tonight.
Lakshmi was blushing by the things he was saying. She shrugged it off as things that married people said to each other all the time. She continued to feel so blessed and was so grateful to Goddess Lakshmi. She still could not get over her good fortune and the opportunity to escape the shackles of village life that her mother, grandmother, and generations before wore. She was going to finally escape the bars of this prison hidden in the outskirts of the hills of Idukki.
As their carriage drew closer to the event, all the villagers were gathered and were silenced by the grandeur and beauty of the couple, in particular taken aback by Lakshmi’s transformation. She was even more ethereal than she had looked over the past few days.
“Wow, the Prince Charles and Princess Diana of our small village,” shrieked a villager with joy.
“Who?” said another.
“They look like British royalty, you stupid small-minded fool. Just see Devi’s daughter’s kismet. Goddess Lakshmi has not rained, but stormed good wealth and fortune on that child and her family,” an envious distant relative spat out. “My Chandana is just as, if not more, sweet and darling. That’s why I named her after the pure white moon. Lakshmi is a shadow in my
Chandana’s presence. Only if Vishnu had seen her first, it would have been his and her good fate.”
As she sat atop the Cinderella-esque carriage, Lakshmi felt like she and Vishnu were a Tollywood power couple. With the photographer snapping pictures in fast succession, she felt like a celebrity with her own paparazzi hungry to capture the star couple’s arrival. A red carpet had been unraveled as the carriage stopped in front of the village square, and Vishnu jumped out of the carriage like the hero of a Tollywood super hit. He came around to her side, took her delicate, fair hand into his, and helped her down. As she stood on the red carpet, the glory of her dress unraveled around her as the tulle underskirt revealed the sparkling lengha she had on. She was tantalizing and she could feel the heat of all the eyes glued to her in envy and awe.
She accompanied Vishnu down the red carpet and then up to the stage, followed by Gayatri, Ramdev and the rest of the extended family. Devi, Trisha, her grandmother, and Rani were seated with the rest of the family at the front of the venue and you could see the tears of joy in each of their eyes. Lakshmi’s father was also very content, but for a very different reason. He had not only managed to have his daughter married off at the right age, but to a wealthy family and suitable groom at minimal cost to him. She was not going to be the burden he had thought she would be. He thought to himself, “Yes, the village mystic was on point. This girl is good luck for our family. And the connection has only elevated my status amongst our class. People are now calling me, what a lowly driver,
sir
. Vah! Goddess Lakshmi. Vah!”
~
No expense had been spared by Gayatri for the reception. The event was grander than the wedding itself. She was expecting all
sorts of high-ranking business dignitaries of her only and most beloved, Vishnu, to attend. Disappointingly and only moments before their procession left their home, Vishnu had informed her that due to a critical meeting with foreign partners from Dubai, they would not be able to attend. As a saving grace, however, the gracious Mr. Iyer and his family who had provided former bad boy, Vishnu, a sanctuary in the city when he needed straightening out, were among the elite Kochi friends attending. Gayatri was at least glad for that. Additionally, one of Vishnu’s junior associates, Dravid D’Souza, an Anglo-Indian from Goa who had found similar success in the big city, would be there.
“Namaskaram, Iyer ji,” Ramdev with Gayatri alongside greeted Mr. Iyer, his wife, and the odd relative. “Thank you so much for this honor. We are so very grateful for everything you have done for our son and family. Thank you for coming all this way to bless our children. We are assured you will continue to look after the two of them in Kochi, sir,” they both said as they bowed before Mr. Iyer and his wife in gratitude with their palms pressed together. They continued their conversation with Mr. Iyer and his clan as Vishnu broke away with Lakshmi to introduce her to Dravid.
“Come, come, my Lakshmi flower,” Vishnu said as he dragged her to meet Dravid. “This is Dravid from Goa. He is the party animal of the two of us. We’ll have lots of fun in Kochi in his company. He knows the best booze and parties.”
“Why, hello, beautiful lady. You are right, Vishnu brother. Aishwarya Rai pales in her comparison, Vishnu sir. Wow, what a body and those curves,” Dravid smiled as his eyes went from matching her gaze and worked its way slowly down her neck, bosoms and rested on the exposed part of her mid-riff. He then looked back up at her almond eyes and gave her a cheeky wink that Vishnu didn’t catch. “Lucky vixen, Lakshmi. I’m going to
have a hard time competing for Vishnu’s attention with you around.”
In that moment, Lakshmi forced a polite smile but underneath felt a strange discomfort in Dravid’s presence. Then and there, Rani ran up to them. “Vishnu, if you don’t mind, may I have a few moments with your bride. You are taking my best friend away tomorrow. Please. Please spare few moments of her time.” Without waiting for Vishnu’s answer, Rani whisked Lakshmi away so the girls could chat one last time before Lakshmi left for Kochi the next day. As they ran off, Lakshmi could feel Vishnu’s fiery stare as Rani pulled her away.
“Lakshmi! Lakshmi! You look even more stunning than ever before! When you go to Kochi, please don’t forget me. Your best friend. Write me as often as you can, please! Tell me everything! I cannot wait to see you next.”  Without letting Lakshmi have a word edge-wise, Rani kept rambling on, “Oh, whenever that will be. I hope that Goddess Lakshmi will bring me fortune too. Pray for me, Lakshmi that I too will soon be in Kochi and again close to you, sister.”
The two girls who had known each other from childhood looked deeply into each other’s eyes with both sadness for having to leave each other’s sides after years together. On the other end, they were also full of excitement at the prospect that at least one of them would leave this little village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills that had run the exact same way from sunrise to sundown for generations now.
~
DJ Kochi Sahib had the music blasting and the alcohol continued to flow freely as the celebrations went on. Vishnu had now been at the bar with Dravid throwing back shots and drinks
for hours, while Lakshmi was now being herded around by Gayatri through the crowds to meet her friends and bid farewell to her village folk. Lakshmi kept looking back at Vishnu worried that tonight would be another repeat of their wedding night.
Gayatri saw her concern and whispered into Lakshmi’s ears, “This is normal behavior for our men. Don’t look so shocked. When he’s back in Kochi, he has to go back to being sensible again.” And with that, Gayatri chuckled and moved on to chat with another close acquaintance.
Lakshmi wasn’t sure what to make of that comment. In her innocence, she accepted the answer but deep down in her heart, that explanation didn’t appease her but she couldn’t quite understand why. The night raged on and in the wee hours of the morning Gayatri, Lakshmi, the rest of the women folk of their family returned home with their kids in tow, leaving the men behind to wrap up the festivities.
They each retired to their respective rooms. After undressing and putting on her cotton salwar kameez for bed, Lakshmi sat up still in the bed, shuddering at every little noise, afraid it was a drunk, raging Vishnu. From the wind knocking the shutters of the windows, to the creak of doors, to the cricket who chirped in the silence of the night, she kept an eye open in case Vishnu came in and hurt her. However, Vishnu never did come back to their bed that night and eventually, she drifted off into a sweet slumber on their bed, feeling a sense of relief.
~
“Lakshmi, Lakshmi. Where are you now, girl?” she heard her Maa ji call as she suddenly woke up. “It’s almost time for you and Vishnu to head to Kochi.”
Lakshmi checked the clock at the bedside. It was six in the morning. A half hour too long that she had slept in that day. “Hahn, hahn, Maa ji. I’m just getting ready.”
She quickly got dressed, skipping a bath and wore one of the delicate plain pink silk saris gifted to her by Gayatri. She then rushed over to the kitchen to assist Cook with the breakfast duties. Today, Gayatri asked that she make her special cardamom tea as requested by Ramdev.
“We won’t see you two for a while. We all want to have a cup of that delicious tea to remember you by,” Gayatri said as she smiled and left the kitchen where Cook was preparing breakfast and Lakshmi started on her tea. Gayatri was in no mood to scold the girl for her tardiness this morning as they would be off on their trip to Kochi soon and wanted to send them off with positive blessings. Plus, doing so, would be inauspicious as they were traveling to Vishnu’s 3BHK overlooking the beautiful waters and harbor of Kochi for the first time as a couple and she didn’t want bad energy entering their marital home.
Gayatri was so proud of her son’s accomplishments. She had never ventured out of her grand home in the small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills, but Vishnu had shown her a portfolio of pictures of his apartment, with the lush furnishings and the jaw-dropping views. She would probably never have a chance to visit, but she was pleased with herself for finding a flawless bride matching her son and his future success.
~
As Lakshmi served breakfast, she kept looking out the window to see where Vishnu had gotten to. After she had seen to it that the village elder, Ramdev, and all the males of the family had been
fed, she quietly crept away from her breakfast time duties to see if he happened to be sleeping somewhere else in the house.
As she approached Gayatri and Ramdev’s room, she heard Gayatri talking to someone in a hushed voice. She got closer to that bedroom and stood just shy of the bedroom window that looked out into the courtyard.
“Help me undress him and change him into some clean clothes. Ouf, vomit everywhere and he stinks of alcohol. Boys will always be boys and Vishnu is the prime example. And that friend of his, Dravid! Where did you find him this time?” Gayatri continued on as she spoke to another person in the room.
“Yes, Gayatri madam,” she heard Vinod’s voice. “Ah, um, the usual place. By the shanty with Dravid sir.
Lakshmi’s heart sank. She was very familiar with that place. She had heard many stories of that place and how Rani’s father would stumble home from there on late nights after drinking, followed by a visit to that local brothel. The brothel had women from the untouchable class, which the villagers conveniently looked the other way when their men frequented the place.
Rani had been there on occasion to pull her drunk father out from there and bring him back home. She described the shanty as a long, rusty tin shed with large cots everywhere separated into “rooms” with tacky, filthy curtains made from discarded rags, sewn together to create a veil of privacy. Men and women interlocked, sometimes in multiples, performing all sorts of degrading activities. Whips, swings, masks. Unmentionable items.
Rani tried to describe the scent to Lakshmi, but couldn’t quite provide a good comparison. She would gag at the thought of that smell. She would close her eyes and shake her head whenever she tried to describe that place. Rani never stayed there too
long. Only enough time to drag her good-for-nothing father out. Eventually, however, she stopped caring about her selfish father and realized that he would eventually find his way back home even if she didn’t go there to retrieve him.
“Okay. Now, Vinod, go ask Cook for the hangover cure and get some jugs of cold water to throw in my shweet boy Vishnu’s face. Just like back in the days. Oh my dear son, I’m going to miss you, my shweet boy,” Lakshmi could hear her Maa ji fawn over her disgrace of a son. “And come straight back. Don’t let anyone see you,” she hollered at Vinod as he left the room.
Vinod walked out, then past her. Lakshmi thought she had been quiet enough to go unnoticed, but he caught a glimpse of her rose-colored sari. Their eyes interlocked momentarily and, in that glance, a whole conversation was exchanged. Vinod was speechless and regretful that the young, sweet innocence of this village girl would quickly be sapped away by his boss and his despicable ways. He had learned a long time ago that it was none of his business. He had his own issues and he was unable to help her or anyone else. He liked the job and the free room and board that came with it. She wasn’t worth giving that up. Lakshmi, not yet understanding the full scope of the daunting life ahead of her, did realize the gravity of her situation in that moment, but she was also enticed by the prospect of leaving this small village and its suffocating walls behind.
~
When she walked back to the where breakfast was served, she quietly took her seat with the others at the dining table. All the men, but Vishnu had been served breakfast to their satisfaction, and the women had now sat down to start their meals.
“Lakshmi dear, where is your handsome partner?” the village elder addressed Lakshmi directly.
The bubble of dull pain she felt as she sat there burst as she heard those words. She straightened up, smiled and let out a sweet giggle without offering much more. She played the demure new bride, even though her heart sank fast, deep in her chest. “Remember, Goddess Lakshmi is with you. This is the golden ticket She has bestowed on you. Once in Kochi, everything will be okay,” she thought to herself as she pecked on the flattened rice in her aval upma and sipped the special cardamom tea that she had made earlier. Cook had kept the tea hot for everyone to enjoy.
After a while, Gayatri swiftly came in to be seated next to Ramdev and smiled at Lakshmi. She proceeded to have her breakfast and cup of tea. Everyone was engrossed in either the newspaper, feeding their kids, or just deep in their thoughts.
“Is your son not going to join us, again?” the old man pointedly asked Ramdev and Gayatri. “Too much, last night?” He pantomimed drinking. Everyone but Gayatri and Lakshmi let out a roar of laughter. Gayatri looked at Lakshmi and let out a light-hearted smile and said, “Oh, boys will be boys, Papa ji,” she replied, feigning pride to conceal her embarrassment. It seemed to be such a normal occurrence in the household that no one was very concerned about Vishnu’s night of debauchery. The newlyweds were set to leave later that morning to their new lives in Kochi, so the family and their servants moved on and turned their focus to hasten those preparations.
With everything packed and ready to go, it wasn’t till a bit after 2pm that afternoon that a tired and heavily hungover Vishnu appeared, now all cleaned up but still dazed. His eyes were sunken and his breath still lingered of alcohol and vomit, despite attempts to brush the smell of his drunken night away.
After putting some food away, the couple was ready to head out on their journey. Gayatri and Ramdev were at the forefront of the farewell party. Gayatri had her trusty puja plate ready and lit. Vishnu came and placed his hand on the small of Lakshmi’s back and gave her one of his charming smiles, reigniting hope in Lakshmi. “Boys will be boys,” she thought as her anxiety calmed. “I’m a grown woman now and this is how men just act. Once in Kochi, everything will be fine.”
Lakshmi was too young and had very little guidance from the women around her to understand a man like Vishnu and that they just didn’t change. Her parents and family had handed her off to her new family and it was for her to forge her own path forward. They had done all they could.
Despite the unease she felt around him, Lakshmi had no choice but to move forward. If she did go home now or ever, it would only bring disgrace and shame to the family. She would be spoiled goods. “This is your chance, Lakshmi. This is your chance to leave this small village life behind. Think about taht,” she repeated to herself. With that, Lakshmi entered the car in the front passenger seat of Vishnu’s Hero Honda. They were ready to embark on a completely fresh journey as man and wife. Lakshmi would have no family and no friends in Kochi. It would truly be a new beginning for her with a man she hardly knew.
~
Chapter 4 – Envy or Maatsarya
“The spirit of envy can destroy; it can never build.”
~ Margaret Thatcher
Lakshmi did a small prayer to her namesake Goddess as she sat seated in the Hero Honda in the passenger seat next to her
husband. Her status had been elevated from the poor village girl from the labor class that lived in small two-room house with her father, mother, grandmother, brother, cousin-brother and occasional relative to “madam”. She would no longer have to wake up in the wee hours to fetch water from the well and cook rice before she labored on the cardamom estate wondering what life as Kanika madam was like.
As she sat next to her husband, who was recovering from last night’s hangover, she no longer thought about the terrifying wedding night she had or that her drunk husband had pleasured himself at a brothel the night before. She had now said goodbye to her family and now to his as well. They had no immediate plans to come back to the village and it was rare for Vishnu to have come home, so she had to focus on her future. Her future in Kochi.
She caught herself looking at herself in the side view mirror and she couldn’t help but smile. She was leaving this hamster wheel of a life. The first woman out of many generations.
It had been about ten minutes into the ride when Vishnu suddenly veered off of the dusty main road onto the unofficial road towards a dingy shanty, breaking Lakshmi’s contemplation. This road had been smoothed into place over the years as various vehicles made their way and parked in this unmarked district on the outer edge of the village. Vishnu rolled down the windows and Lakshmi inhaled that unfamiliar stench of degradation, debauchery and deception that Rani had only tried to describe to her. She sat there looking in the side view mirror, now her face full of despair and shame. She stayed silent and did not dare to look elsewhere in case she locked eyes with a degenerate.
“Dravid, friend,” Vishnu was laughing. “Come, brother, let’s go. Fun’s over.” She now saw her husband pull a drunk fellow with
a half-buttoned shirt and his fly half open stumble towards the car.
“Ha Ha! What a night, brother. These village girls know how to rock. Not like the spoilt city bitches. Cheap too,” Dravid responded in his stupor.
Lakshmi held it together but felt so much anguish and incomprehensibility of the situation. “Dravid is not a good man or influence on Vishnu. This will have to change once we are in Kochi,” she thought to herself. Once in Kochi she knew things would be different and she closed her eyes and thought of her grandma who would often say, “Do not be discouraged by slow progress. A snail can climb a mountain if it keeps going."
Dravid threw himself into the backseat. He laughed stupidly as he gazed aimlessly at the car’s ceiling. Then he caught Lakshmi’s stern stare, smiled at her, and said, “Hello beautiful.” Lakshmi felt cold disgust from the way he spoke to her and she quickly looked away.
Vishnu jumped into the driver’s seat and yelled loudly, “Kochi, here we come!” He moved across the gear shift to Lakshmi and gave her a peck on her cheek. “Let’s go, baby!” he exclaimed in English. Lakshmi blushed and looked away feeling a bit embarrassed from his public affection and also amazed by his command of the foreign language. “He is so classy and worldly,” she admired. He laughed a hearty laugh, put the key in the ignition, and off the trio went towards Kochi. Five minutes into the ride a loud snoring Dravid could be heard in the backseat, but Lakshmi made sure that Dravid didn’t disturb the warm and loving connection she was feeling with Vishnu in that moment.
~
The car ride wasn’t as long as Lakshmi had thought it to be.
It was only about four hours away with traffic from their small village on the outskirts of the hills of Idukki. Nevertheless, Lakshmi was very excited. She had seen photos of their 3BHK overlooking the Arabian Sea on Marine Drive. Over the course of the drive, she fell into a daydream as her hero of a husband drove his Hero Honda towards her new home. Remembering the pictures, she recalled that the entry way itself was so huge and housed a large statute of the God Vishnu and his wife, Goddess Lakshmi, beckoning them and their guests into their lavish marble floored mahal.
The living room opened out onto a large balcony that overlooked the beautiful backwaters and she could just imagine what the salty sea air would feel like when it touched her skin. The kitchen was straight out of a Tollywood movie. Fine finishes and hot and cold water that flowed directly from the tap. And not to mention the two sprawling bathrooms fitted with tubs so she could take a shower or a bath whenever she pleased. There were so many bedrooms. One for her and Vishnu. One for their guests. And surely, one for their future son. Lakshmi was so very happy as she thought about her beautiful home that they inched towards and the endless opportunities to come.
If Rani ever visited or whenever they met next, she would tell her all about how luxurious life was now as Lakshmi madam. “Oh Rani, you won’t believe it! I don’t even have to move a muscle. I worry I’m going to put on weight just eating all the delicious foods and our maid taking care of all the household chores,” she would brag to her best friend just as Kanika madam would. “I hope you too can find a man that can provide you with all these comforts. No, you definitely will my dear friend. I’ll make sure of it and connect you with one of Vishnu’s business partners.” She was pleased with herself as Lakshmi thought about how she
would tell her best friend about her new life in Kochi and find a way for Rani to join her in the big city.
As they drove further out from the village, she marveled at the winding roads and the changing beauty that she was seeing for the very first time in her life. So many firsts this week, Lakshmi thought. Riding in a luxury car, beautiful clothes, servants and drivers. She was living a life she had only read in the many books her grandmother would smuggle to her or heard of from the many stories that Kanika madam would tell during their weekly afternoon teas. They drove on long stretches of highways and halfway through the trip, they stopped at a rest stop for lunch. They sat at a table and instead of it being a romantic first lunch as a married couple, Dravid plonked down next to Lakshmi.
“Brother, bring us two teas and a cold ThumsUp for him,” Vishnu ushered to a young boy taking the orders and pointed at Dravid when gesturing who the ThumsUp was for.
Vishnu and Dravid looked over the menu posted on the road stop shack as Lakshmi meekly sat at one of the plastic chairs at the table for four. “Come here again, brother. One goat biryani and one veg one. Quickly, we are in a hurry,” Vishnu yelled at the boy. The young boy nodded, acknowledging the order and then rushed to the make-shift roadside kitchen.
The two men chatted and then disappeared behind the shack into the fields to relieve themselves. Lakshmi sat there quietly, feeling a bit uncomfortable as she was alone for the first time in a strange place where she knew literally no one. The tea and ThumsUp came and she sipped on her tea as she waited for her husband and his good-for-nothing friend to return.
Lakshmi was excited to eat out with a delicious meal at a proper restaurant for the first time. Thinking back, she didn’t remember ever eating outside her home except perhaps at a
friend’s house or at the festivals in their small village. She thought, “Wow, how yummy this tea is and to have it in this beautiful open-air restaurant. This is what wealth must feel like.” She sat there taking in her surroundings, feeling like a princess.
The men returned to the table and Vishnu ushered Lakshmi to go as well as the journey ahead was another two hours or so. It took Lakshmi a moment to understand what he was implying and she then rushed off to find a place behind the shack where other women huddled to relieve themselves. She went to the well and quickly washed her hands before returning to the table as she felt a little scared being out on her own in unfamiliar surroundings.
Vishnu and Dravid were already knee deep into their biryani. “Vah, top biryani, my friend. Best hangover food ever,” said a now sobered up Dravid. He pointed to Lakshmi, “Eat, eat. Don’t be shy. Veg one for you, but now you’re not a virgin, try the goat,” Dravid roared into laughter as did Vishnu at his sordid joke.
Lakshmi awkwardly smiled as the two shoveled food into their mouths as Lakshmi delicately ate a few bites. She wasn’t accustomed to eating first along with the men. This too felt out of her comfort zone, but she recognized that she would have to adapt to the new rules. She couldn’t act like a silly village girl.
Once done, Dravid let out a loud and unseemly belch. “Vishnu, what an idea you had to stop here. You made my day. Let’s get something sweet at the mithai store and get those delicious Ras Malai,” Dravid suggested to his friend.
Vishnu laughed and in reply said, “You have such a sweet tooth, you devil.”
“Not all of us can peck on something sweet now whenever we want,” Dravid slyly responded as he grinned at Lakshmi. He covertly placed his hand on Lakshmi’s upper thigh, rubbing it gently as he joked. Lakshmi didn’t move and stared straight ahead at her husband. Luckily, Vishnu hadn’t noticed, otherwise drama would ensue and she just couldn’t endure another painful encounter that day. “Dravid is no good for us,” Lakshmi quietly noted to herself, “Snake of a man. I’ll have to make sure this friendship does not continue.”
With the bill paid, the trio hopped into the car and headed to Bapu Bhai’s Sweet Emporium a half hour out from Kochi to satisfy Dravid’s craving. Upon arrival, they parked outside a grand store decorated with marigold garlands that was packed with people walking in and out of doors that opened and shut automatically. Lakshmi was mesmerized by the doors. She had never seen automatic doors ever. When she walked in, she felt a strange cool breeze. Vishnu looked over at the dazzled Lakshmi. “Aircon,” he said, “Brrrr, machine cold air.” Lakshmi was thrilled. “This is how people stayed cool in the big city,” she reflected. “How marvelous!” She had previously seen floor fans at Kanika madam’s patio where they had afternoon tea, but she had never entered her house and always wondered how Kanika madam had never broken a sweat in the heat and came out to tea so flawlessly each time. Now she understood how the wealthy were able to do so.
After taking a ticket from the counter, they got on the long line that was moving quite efficiently. Once at the cashier, they ordered three plates of Ras malai, paid and were given a receipt. It was so orderly despite the number of folks that the establishment was serving in that one moment. Lakshmi was amazed by the system and had never felt so cool and relaxed before. Aircon was an amazing invention. She thought of how
much her mother would love feeling the cool during her hot flashes that she had begun to experience over the past year.
“When I establish myself in my marriage, I’ll take an aircon back to my parents’ home and get one installed,” she thought to herself.
Once they got their order, they stood to eat at one of the high-top tables arranged by the window that they were able to snag from a couple that was leaving. Vishnu and Dravid quickly devoured the two Ras Malai pieces in their plates, while Lakshmi savored the squishy sweet cheesy dessert soaked in a delicate milk infused with sugar, cardamom and saffron. It was the most scrumptious dessert she had ever tasted in her life, other than that Black Forest cake she had had at Kanika madam’s. She was relishing each bite she took, but this enjoyment was cut short by Vishnu, who was now telling her to hurry up so they could beat traffic into the city. With her tranquility broken, she quickly demolished the remaining Ras Malai piece and slurped up the sweetened, cool milk. Despite the rush, she was determined not to leave that one piece of heavenly delight behind. The three of them then got into the car and began the remaining leg of their journey to what would be Lakshmi’s new, forever home.
~
As they entered into the city limits of Kochi, Lakshmi looked out the window in awe. She had never seen such tall buildings, made of glass. Only if Rani could see this in person too. She wouldn’t believe Lakshmi otherwise. It was one thing having watched these places on the TV in various Tollywood movies and serials, but to actually experience this in person was thrilling.
All of a sudden, the noises of the city seeped in and she now heard constant honking, autorickshaws and mopeds buzz past.
Annoyed bells chimed as cyclists sped past. She couldn’t believe the hordes of people passing by in the streets. She was fascinated by the external stimuli, if not slightly overwhelmed. Kochi stood in stark contrast to the small village on the outskirts of the hills of Idukki that she had left just hours ago.
They passed by stalls selling all sorts of items. Spices, clothes, kitchenware. The quantity and variety of items being sold at these markets was astonishing. She let out a laugh when she saw a random cow in the middle of the street with traffic diverting around the creature. Vishnu looked in her direction and chuckled.
“How is Kochi, my darling? Different from our village, no?” he said admiring her naivety. “Even I was like this when I first came. You’ll soon get used to this chaos. It’s your home now.”
Lakshmi let that wholesome thought sink in and she relished in it. This exciting, energetic place was going to be her future home. There was so much to take in and she couldn’t wait to explore it all. They were now driving along a stretch of highway and Lakshmi saw a road sign for “Marine Drive.” She was almost at her 3BKH home with all the modern fixtures. She couldn’t wait to feel be Lakshmi madam, living the aristocratic life.
~
They drove down Marine Drive, passing tall high-rise residential buildings with perfectly landscaped entrances and pathways leading to the shoreline. Lakshmi looked over to Vishnu trying to assess if they were nearing their new home. They then took a sharp turn to an area behind the posh area to a collection of what looked like crumbling, poorly painted buildings all crowded together. Vishnu parked the car under an unassuming, dilapidated building.
“Come my beautiful bride. Let me show you to our grand residences,” he said after coming over to her side of the car and opening it for her. He took her hand to a shocked Lakshmi. “Dravid, brother. Can you get the princess’ bags?” he said sarcastically to his friend. They walked into the building that opened into a large, dimly lit hallway that smelled of strong cleaning chemicals. They walked over to a small steel door.
“We are on the sixth floor,” Vishnu said looking over to Lakshmi sheepishly. “This magic box will transport us into our heavenly 3BKH with all the luxury my queen will need. Welcome to Kochi and your new home.”
For the first time, Lakshmi walked into an elevator and was terrified of being in it. But she did as she was told. It was small and she felt claustrophobic with herself, Vishnu, Dravid and her few bags in the tiny electric box. Dravid pressed the dingy “6” button, and the box began to move upward as they rose up to the sixth floor. She lost her balance a bit, but Vishnu caught her.
Then, the doors of the old, creaky elevator opened up and immediately filled with the chatter of the residents who had their doors open. Little children ran down the hallway with the women of 6C and 6D socializing while casually supervising the little ones. Lakshmi felt overwhelmed and confused. “This is not what was shown in the pictures,” she thought to herself. “Where am I?”
They stopped in front of the door of Apartment 6F. Dravid left Vishnu and Lakshi’s bags in front of that door as a woman dressed in tight Westen style clothing approached Dravid and handed keys over to Vishnu. “Where have you been? Ronny has been looking for you,” she said as her fingers traced the outline of Dravid’s jawline, before she planted her lips on his and they began to kiss passionately before the two disappeared down the
hall into another apartment. Lakshmi looked away embarrassed and now alone with Vishnu.
Her body was in shock mode as she realized this was nothing like a Tollywood movie or as she had imagined her accommodations to be from the pictures. Vishnu flung open the door of Apartment 6F, a darkly lit apartment that had a strange odor emanating from it that matched what she had smelled when she walked into the building.
Suddenly, he lifted Lakshmi up to her utter surprise and brought her across the threshold into her new home. “Welcome to our corner apartment. You can see this is my bachelor pad, but now that you are here, you can make it beautiful with your feminine touch,” Vishnu said, oddly proud of the place and despite his deceitfulness.
Lakshmi awkwardly smiled at him and looked around, not commenting on the fake photos he had shown her and even to his own mother and family.
The place was cramped and felt even smaller than her home back in their small village on the outskirts of Idukki. Realizing her discontentment, he looked at her angrily and snapped his fingers in her face, “Hey. Hey. Look at me. Are you not going to thank me or say anything for your new home? Ungrateful whore.” She was shocked by the sudden change in his temperament and tried to find the words, “Um, ah. Oh, it is all so amazing. I’m sorry. I couldn’t find any words. It is so lovely. Thank you. Thank you, my dear husband,” a frightened Lakshmi responded.
That seemed to appease Vishnu in the moment as he smiled at that response and strutted away like a peacock having pleased his mate. “Come now, let me show you around,” he went on as he gestured towards a dusty futon, two plastic chairs that still had
their utility but were clearly past their due date, and a dirty glass coffee table with unclean coasters flung across it. This living area was positioned near the window looking out to a view of a back alleyway where the building dumpster sat, piled with trash.
“This here is our living room and behind this door is your kitchen,” he pointed. “The kitchen is basic, but functional. Here is the stove, but the gas cylinder will need changing soon. It lasts about 60 days, but Dravid and I eat out most nights at Mr. Iyer’s or down at Ruby’s. Maybe you’ll need to change it sooner as you’ll be taking care of the house now and cooking my meals. I’ll be home more often now I’m not a bachelor,” he instructed.
He continued with his orientation on the apartment rules. “The water is only available from five to eight in the morning each day, so make sure to fill the buckets there.” Vishnu pointed to three aqua blue buckets that had clearly not been washed in ages and had collected a film of dirt as they sat in the bleak corner of the small kitchen. The kitchen at least had a window overlooking the main street which brought some rays of sunshine into the dismal place.
Noticing Lakshmi look out the window, Vishnu said, “Yes, we are very lucky. If you look there. Right there. You can see a bit of the backwaters. Pretty, isn’t it?” Lakshmi squinted hard to try and catch a tiny glimpse of the Arabian Sea.
Lakshmi nodded her head, but was very skeptical of the view as Vishnu led her to a bedroom. “And this here is our bedroom where we will make our future babies. The final room completes our cozy 3BHK,” he proudly gaslit. Lakshmi looked around at the low-lit room that had no windows at all and smelled as if the sheets hadn’t been washed for, well, forever. She felt queasy as this wasn’t what she had imagined her home to look like, at all. She had been duped and this was certainly not a three-bedroom, hall, with kitchen set-up that had been shown.
Lakshmi was distracted by the appalling reality surrounding her, but Vishnu was focused on what he wanted in that moment. He unzipped his pants, dropped them and hiked up the petticoat under Lakshmi’s sari. He proceeded to pull her panties down and tried to put himself inside her. “Are you not wet for me yet? Look at all that I have given you, you ungrateful cow. You will be living like a queen. Not a poor village bitch and this is not enough to get wet for me?” he bellowed in anger as he continued to force himself into her savagely until he was able to slip inside her. Lakshmi was frozen in that moment as she had been flung onto the bed and Vishu had thrust himself violently into her, covering up her mouth to muffle any of her screams.
“Brother,” they heard a knock outside at the front door. It was Dravid. As Vishnu continued to force himself on Lakshmi, he briefly paused, got up and went to the door. She could hear him say, “Dravid, brother, give a man a few…minutes.” Lakshmi could see him gesture to the bedroom. “I’ll be down for dinner. Go sit with Ruby down the hall. I’m almost done. Few moments only. Brother, she is so fucking tight and wet right now.” A terrified Lakshmi could hear Vishnu discuss their intimacy with his strange freind. What hell had she arrived at.
Lakshmi frozen, knew he was coming back and that she couldn’t escape to anywhere. Every second felt like a lifetime as she just lay there on the bed with her petticoat up. She was wet down there with blood and cum, but had to lay still on this bed that smelled so rancid she felt like puking. She had to be strong now and shut out all the unpleasant feelings of the moment. She was in Kochi and she always wanted to leave her mundane life at her small village. She had to bear this so that she could live a better life.
Vishnu hungrily came back and quickly put himself back into her so he wouldn’t go limp. He took off her sari stall, unbuttoned
her blouse, and proceeded to suck and bite her breasts until he reached satisfaction. The whole experience was frightening and jarring for young Lakshmi as Vishnu hadn’t given her any warning. There was no foreplay as was described so intimately in the Mills & Boon passages that Kanika madam would read aloud to them over afternoon tea.
Once done, Vishnu flopped over for a few to catch his breath. Lakshmi just lay there silently and still. To her relief, he then stood up, tidied himself and told Lakshmi, “Go clean yourself up and fix that face. I’m going down the hall. That sweet Ruby of Dravid’s has invited us for dinner. Don’t keep us waiting, bitch. Apt 6B.”
With that, he left, slamming the front door of their now marital home behind him. Lakshmi didn’t move until a small voice inside her gave her courage to get up. Perhaps it was the fear of an irate Vishnu storming back if she was late for dinner down the hall. “Dear beautiful granddaughter,” she heard her grandmother’s voice, “You are off daydreaming again. Enjoy these moments. You are young, but as you get older, remember that reality is not always pleasant. Find strength in that, but don’t ever forget to dream.”
She thought about her grandmother’s words, which once seemed so cryptic but were clear as day now. She found her way to the grimy bathroom. It was a western style shower head and faucet set-up that seemed to drain into a hole in the ground and there was a flush toilet too, but neither had been cleaned in ages. And the water was indeed switched off for the day and she found an aqua colored plastic bucket of water that seemed to have been sitting there for a while as scum had formed at the top. Lakshmi gagged. She had never been anywhere this filthy before, even being as poor as she had been her entire life.
She looked at herself in the mirror and through tears she hadn’t realized she was shedding, broke out a forced smile. She fixed her sari the best she could, although it had now creased with Vishnu’s callous handling of her. She bent down to the bucket and skimmed of the dirt that had formed. She took the cracked plastic mug that hung from the bucket and took a scoop of the water. It was not clean and had some bugs in it but it was the best thing she had till she could get fresh water tomorrow morning. At least she wouldn’t have to go to the well as she had to in her small village. She held onto that positive thought.
She used the water to wash her face and found a towel that must have hung at the back of the door unwashed for a while now. She sighed in despair. She knew that boys were not always clean and remembered how she would scold her brother and cousin-brother, but even they were never this disgusting. She had never seen anything this unhygienic in her life. She couldn’t stall though. She quickly found her make-up bag and the earrings that Maa ji had given her. She applied some kajal that accentuated her tired eyes and applied some rouge to her cheeks, revitalizing the beauty that had been dampened by her tears. She put on those tear-drop earrings that elongated her elegant neck.
Despite the abuse she had endured not ten minutes prior, she looked rejuvenated and untouched. She fished out the Gangalee- and jasmine-infused oil that her mother had prepared for her and put it on the scent spots as her mother had done. The smell was nostalgic and brought her a sense of calm. She closed her eyes briefly remembering her family and the fields of Gangalee blossoms from her home. That brief moment energized her and brought back a bit of her strength after the harrowing experience.
Now feeling ready, Lakshmi was ready to meet Ruby who she had deduced could only be Dravid’s wife.
~
Still in a light stupor, Lakshmi found her way to Apt 6B. When she walked in, her nostrils were hit by a flood of rich, delicious aromas that she had never experienced before, wafting from the kitchen. The woman dressed in western wear that Lakshmi had seen with Dravid earlier came from behind a beaded curtain that separated the living room from the bedroom.
“You must be, Lakshmi,” she said as she leaned in and hugged Lakshmi tightly. Lakshmi could feel the woman’s half-exposed breasts against hers as they warmly embraced. “Welcome, welcome to Kochi. You’ve met the boys. I’m, um, Dravid’s friend, Roooobeee.” Lakshmi noted how Ruby rolled her “r” so sensually when she said her name, smiled and then winked at the boys. “Vishnu, she is so beautiful. Her skin is so smooth and like cream. Mrs. Iyer is going to love her. She has a lovely figure too,” Ruby remarked.
Lakshmi was so confused by that comment. She also wondered how Ruby wasn’t Dravid’s wife. “Are they living together?” she thought. She was also not sure what to make of the comment regarding her body and why Mrs. Iyer would care after seeing her during the wedding in her little village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills.
“So now that my Vishnu is a married man, I’ve had to move down her with Ruby. We are going to be roommates.” Dravid filled in.
“Roommates,” Lakshmi thought to herself. “But only one bedroom?” She was bewildered by the casual arrangement.
“Silly boy. It’s not like you weren’t living here already,” Ruby replied. “Come now. You must be hungry after your long journey and the Punjabi part of me wants to feed you until you can’t eat anymore.”
Ruby was Ruby Kaur from Lucknow in North India. Her mother was originally from Kochi but had married a Punjabi man and her parents had settled on her father’s cozy ancestral farm in Punjab. Ruby always knew she never fit in with the northerners. Too dark to be accepted by Punjabis and always told how ugly she was because of her South Indian features that her mother had given her. “He shouldn’t have married a girl from the South. No wonder she is so dark. And that nose. Who will ever love her?” she would hear people say shamelessly in front of her.
When Ruby saw a casting for a Tollywood movie, she moved to Kochi without any hesitation. She had never felt the need to return to Punjab, even though she never did get into that or any Tollywood movie. She had only ever managed to get a role of an extra. Ruby was persistent and never gave up. She spoke the language and had a better chance at breaking the barriers here than she would ever have in Mumbai, so that kept her trying. Although she still heard taunts about how she looked, she chalked it up to the fierce competition within the industry. Also, it just didn’t hurt as much when the people judging her weren’t her own family or close relatives. She was content with the life she had made for herself here in this dynamic, ever-changing city.
~
Lakshmi was glad to be in the company of others in that moment, even to be around Dravid who she despised. Vishnu was less terrifying and actually warm and fun-loving when they were with other people. He had his arm around her shoulders as
he gave Lakshmi a quick tour around Ruby’s apartment before they sat down to some delicious North Indian fare.
“This is Ruby’s 3BHK. You see what a difference a woman’s touch has,” he said with a wink as Lakshmi looked around a clean apartment filled with light, colors and fresh cut flowers.
“Yes, now I understand,” Lakshmi thought to herself as she felt a spur of excitement at the thought of decorating her new home, even forgetting in that moment, the deceitful photos that Vishnu had shared with her and his own family. “A woman’s touch. I will clean up our home and decorate it with my drawings of the Gangalee fields from our village. He will love me for it,” she thought to herself.
Ruby had been busy all morning whipping up various dishes for her guests. She had made aloo gobi, chicken tikka masala, Punjabi dal tadka, and chole. As a side, she had cut slices of cucumbers and tomatoes that she had decorated on a plate and had seasoned with coarse rock salt. She also had pickled onions, very hot green chilies and quartered small lemons in another side plate.
As they sat at the small round dining room table covered in an embroidered tablecloth, Ruby stood by the stove whipping up fresh puris. On another burner, Lakshmi watched mesmerized by Ruby’s technique of adding flavor to the lentils. Ruby chopped up onions and peeled garlic cloves and browned these in a hearty glob of ghee with some spices before combining into the lentils bubbling on the stove. She then dished out the Punjabi dal tadka in a serving dish and placed the piping hot dish on the table.
“My famous dal tadka,” Ruby said as she shot a smile at Lakshmi amid her multitasking hands. “Very different than how we make
it here in the South, nah? Guarantee, you’ll love the extra kick of flavor.”
Lakshmi didn’t want to sit down with the men at the small table as that would not be proper decorum given that they were still eating. The men had to be fed first, so Lakshmi stood by Ruby asking her about the food she made and when the puris were ready, Lakshmi would take them over to the table to serve Vishnu and Dravid. She could hear them smacking their lips and licking their fingers as they busily devoured the feast Ruby had prepared. Lakshmi took mental notes on what she was to expect and how she would need to conduct herself.
Just having met Ruby, Lakshmi immediately know she liked her. She had a warm but had a boisterous aura about her. The two men were certainly drawn to her and she seemed to be the one in control, not them. Lakshmi could feel the dynamic shift when in Ruby’s presence. She admired Ruby for that.
“Is that all? You can eat another puri? Come, on. You’re growing boys,” Ruby teased and continued to insist even after the boys had tucked away a good 4 or 5 puris each and had devoured most of the food, leaving scraps for the two women.
Vishnu let out a stinking belch and exclaimed, “Vah, Ruby. Always tip top delicious. You’ll have to give Lakshmi some lessons. She only knows how to make grass.” He chuckled loudly as he made a joke in very poor taste on Lakshmi’s upbringing as a pure vegetarian.
Dravid remarked slyly as he nudged Vishnu, “She looks like she’s a quick learner. How about it, brother?” Lakshmi wasn’t really sure what he was referring to, but felt uneasy at the remark. The man never really made any sense and she always felt disgust and anxiety when in his presence, but wasn’t sure why Ruby was involved with him.
With the boys done with their food, they got up and took some Kingfishers out of the fridge and plopped themselves in front of a beat-up TV sat atop a rickety table to watch an India versus Pakistan cricket match. At this point, Ruby and Lakshmi were able to sit and enjoy the four puris that remained and the food scraps left over.
“You’ve never tasted meat before?” she asked Lakshmi. “You will have to learn to cook it. Vishnu loves to eat goat, chicken, lamb, fish. Come in the evenings after work and I’ll teach you some of his favorites. Him, Dravid and I go way back so I know how he likes his food.”
Lakshmi smiled and was very pleased to have made a new friend and so quickly upon arrival in Kochi. She did not know what to make about the work comment. Vishnu hadn’t mentioned anything about her having to work. She had been promised a life of luxury. Little by little, she was realizing that perhaps things weren’t quite what they seemed as his family or anyone from their small village on the outskirts of Idukki had imagined his life in Kochi to be. But Lakshmi and her friend, Rani, had always dreamed of escaping the monotony of their lives, so she was happy even with the circumstances she was in now.
Ruby and Lakshmi sat at the table as Vishnu and Dravid roared in cheers when India was winning and cursed at the TV when Pakistan leapt ahead. Ruby told Lakshmi about her life back home in Punjab and that she hadn’t been back since she moved here four years back. She told her there was a lot of painful moments she had left behind in Punjab, but that Kochi had brought her so many new and wonderful opportunities that she could never imagine going back. She was still trying to break into Tollywood, but was happy with her job at the hotel and part-time on weekends at the call center to square away extra cash whenever she could. Kochi was a popular filming location,
but she hadn’t been to an audition in ages. Nevertheless, if an opportunity did come knocking, Mrs. Iyer was kind enough to give her time off when she had to go to one.
“It’s a cutthroat industry, but I never give up and nor should you Lakshmi,” Ruby told her new friend.
Lakshmi was curious how Ruby had met Dravid and Vishnu and through their conversation learned that Mr. and Mrs. Iyer had brought them together at the hotel and that Lakshmi would soon also have the opportunity to meet them again but in their capacity as employers. Lakshmi wondered about the Iyers. She had heard a lot about them and their generosity. She had only very briefly met them during the wedding and so they continued to be an enigma to her. She was starting to get the picture of their role in Vishnu’s life.
Lakshmi was enamored by her new friend as they sat there chatting. She was darker skinned with dimples; had a slender nose and dark hazel eyes marked with a thick line of kajal. Her hair was thick and had been arranged in soft curls, the tips of which had been dyed a golden hue. She was tall like the men and her nails perfectly manicured and painted a bright red.  She wore a dark jean mini skirt, a bra that pushed up her large breasts in the tight green v-neckline t-shirt drawing attention to her cleavage. She was a stark contrast to the very traditionally dressed Lakshmi.
Lakshmi’s beauty didn’t go unnoticed either. Ruby envied her milk-like skin and her naivety, but she also knew what a dog Vishnu was and pitied the poor village girl. Out of desperation she had gotten to know the likes of him and Dravid. From her experience, she knew that men could be a lot worse and for now, she had a relatively cozy situation with Dravid. She avoided being alone with Vishnu. He scared her. Dravid, on the other hand, was a lot of bark but had no bite. Vishnu had a
dark temper which worsened when he was drunk. She feared for Lakshmi’s wellbeing for that reason, but had also learned that she was responsible for only herself in this dog-eat-dog world. Lakshmi had to grow up herself and perhaps best that the lessons came early on. Ruby had had to take care of herself and in time, she knew that Lakshmi would learn to as well.
~
As they finished dinner and were in the process of cleaning up, Vishnu called out to Lakshmi to make her special cardamom chai for everyone.
“You must try her tea, Dravid, Ruby,” he said. “It is even better than my mother’s and the reason I chose her.”
Lakshmi blushed at the compliment. At times, Vishnu would sing such sweet praise of her, but in the shadows would be so savage. She relished in this comment, but she was also left feeling ambivalence.
“Just a moment, I’ll go get the cardamom from our apartment,” Lakshmi said enjoying the fact that she had a place to call hers now.
“I have some here,” Ruby said, pointing to the kitchen drawer full of spices.
“No, no, this is from the hills of Idukki where I used to work on the farm. It is the special ingredient, and no cardamon pod matches its aroma and flavor,” Lakshmi explained as she started to head out. “As a girl, I spent much of my youth gathering the pods at the cardamom estate, so I know just the right ones to use. This is what makes my tea so special.”
Lakshmi smiled at the nostalgia and Ruby felt the warmth of the memory Lakshmi shared. Lakshmi hurried over to the filthy,
dark apartment that she was to call home. “Tomorrow, I will start cleaning this place,” Lakshmi thought to herself as she rummaged through her bags to find the boxes of cardamom pods that her mother had packed for her. Kanika madam and her family always gave boxes of the discarded pods that didn’t make quality control for sale, to the workers and Lakshmi’s mother put a few of these in her luggage, promising to send her some more through the mail so Lakshmi never ran out.
Lakshmi took a handful of pods in her palm that she held up to her nose and took a few deep breaths in. In the scent of the cardamom, she remembered her home in the small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills. She didn’t dawdle too long in that memory, but quickly raced back to Ruby’s to make the tea so beloved by her husband.
~
Back at Apartment 6B, she found Ruby sitting on the sofa with her feet up on the table, sandwiched between the boys. Vishnu had his arm around her as they watched the cricket match.
Vishnu turned to Lakshmi, “Where did you get to? The apartment is only down the hall.” Upon seeing the cardamom pods in her hands, “Hanh, hanh, yes, go make your chai.” He reached down and began rubbing Ruby’s bare knees. He inched up her thigh slowly and added, “Ruby’s been slaving away in the kitchen all day. Your delicious tea will help relax her.”
Ruby turned to him with an uncomfortable smile and playfully smacked his hands off of her knees as not to anger him, but also to diffuse the awkward situation. “These boys. Always looking out for me, Lakshmi,” she replied as she started to get up to assist Lakshmi, but Vishnu pulled her down. Ruby stayed seated, as calmly as she could in the situation.
“Lakshmi enjoyed your lovely meal, Ruby darling. Now let her take care of you with some chai, baby,” Vishnu said as Ruby and him exchanged an awkward exchange. He put his arm back around her shoulders and pulled her towards him. They then joined Dravid in watching the television. Dravid was oddly glued to the set and didn’t respond to the intimate interaction between Vishnu and his girl. Lakshmi smiled and turned towards the kitchen to make her renowned cardamom tea, not quite knowing what to make of the situation. She found it strange that Dravid hadn’t really reacted to Vishnu’s inappropriate behavior with his “girl” or “roommate”. He seemed so entranced in the cricket match and was blankly staring at the screen as he drew another drag at his cigarette that let out a foul odor.
Lakshmi went to the kitchen and ground the cardamom pods in the mortar and pestle, along with her other secret blend of spices. She poured just enough water from Ruby’s reserves for the day into a vessel and set it to boil along with the black tea leaves that she was able to find after rummaging around Ruby’s kitchen cupboards.
As she made the tea, she was overcome by an empty feeling in the pit of her stomach that she had never experienced before. She wasn’t sure how to describe this feeling, but she felt very sad, discouraged and confused, all at once in that moment. “This is the big city and men and women interact with each other differently than they would back home. I need to adapt. I always wanted this city life. It doesn’t quite match up to what the books and movies portray. Grandma is right. My day dreaming needs to stop,” she assured herself as the tea boiled.
Once ready, she filled up four mismatched tea cups, found a tray and walked over to the coffee table to serve the chai. “Just put it down here,” Vishnu said, “No biscuits with the tea. Silly girl. Ruby has Parle-G biscuits in that cupboard over there…Not
there, that one, no that, yes.” Lakshmi brought over the small tea cookies. They complimented her tea well and satisfied the sweet craving after the heavy meal with its delicate flavor. Ruby complimented Lakshmi on her tea, truly amazed by its aroma and richness. Ruby was shushed by Vishnu who was engrossed in the game.
So, they all sat there in silence watching the rest of the match into the late hours of the night, until it was time to go down the hall. Lakshmi was dreading every minute that inched closer to that time. She was happier and felt safer staying here with Ruby and Dravid, even though she didn’t appreciate the intimacy between Ruby and Vishnu earlier. But the time came around that Lakshmi had to go back down the hall with Vishnu.
~
When they walked into the apartment, Vishnu erupted in rage and yelled, “What is this? All your belongings are everywhere.” Lakshmi had forgotten that earlier that evening she had come down the hall and had sorted through her belongings to find the cardamom pods so she could make her tea. As Vishnu flung her clothes and belonging everywhere, she cowered in the corner afraid that he would hit her for creating such a mess in what was already a poorly kept, filthy apartment. She cringed as her few belongings were tossed in his anger and fell onto the floor that was caked with dirt and had gone without mopping for who knows how long. She just sat there as he yelled and cursed at her.
All the neighbors could hear the yelling. She didn’t dare tell him to quieten down, but at the same time, was afraid of what the neighbors would say. No one came, however, to check on their chaos or on her. Only a loud pounding at the walls and a, “Shut up, motherfucker. Some of us need to go to work tomorrow” could be heard which stopped Vishnu in his tracks. He was
breathing so heavily. He looked at her with fire-lit eyes and then stormed into the bedroom, where he slammed the door shut.
Lakshmi sat there in the corner for what seemed like forever. She looked at her phone and saw that it was now 1:30am. She would need to be up early to get the day started, but she dared not go into the bedroom or make any noise. She made her way to the smelly sofa and lay down. She had taken a bright yellow shawl decorated with bright purple Gangalee blossoms from her luggage and covered herself with it to keep her warm. She set the alarm for five in the morning and shut her eyes. She couldn’t quite sleep as she feared Vishnu would come out any second now to beat or ravage her, but fortunately he never came. Around four in the morning, she finally drifted to sleep, but was then awoken with what seemed only a few minutes later by the sounds of her neighbors rustling awake to prepare for the water rationing. She turned off her alarm as she couldn’t sleep in the ruckus. She took a deep sigh as she sat there, too exhausted and too scared to cry. The sweet young woman reassured herself, “Today will be a better day. I will clean this place up and Vishnu will see my worth as his bride.”
~
Lakshmi determined the best course of action. She would first need clean buckets before she could fill them with water for the day. She would need to clean all of four of them, broken and tattered as they were and fill them up before the time allotted for the daily rationing closed. She needed enough water saved for Vishnu’s bath (if he were to take one), enough to at least clean the bathroom and then enough for the cooking for the day.
As quiet as a mouse, Lakshmi emptied the grimy buckets and started scrubbing them the best she could as she sat squatted in front of the taps in the bathroom with the door shut. The
whole room stunk, but she had no other place she could do this. There were half-filled containers of soap under the kitchen sink that she had found and that clearly hadn’t been touched in a very long time. She had no gloves to protect her hands, so she just scraped all the dirt and ich off with her bare hands until her tiny, delicate hands were scrubbed raw themselves. She had never worked with so much determination in her life but in that moment, Lakshmi believed that she could prove her worth to Vishnu by being the best and most perfect wife by cleaning up the apartment.
It took nearly a whole hour to get one bucket cleaned to her level of basic sanitation. Her feet were equally grimy and wet, as were the petticoat and the bottom of the sari she was wearing. She filled that bucket up and, in the meantime, started working on bucket two, realizing that she couldn’t be as thorough in the interest of time. When the first bucket filled, she slowly lugged it from the bathroom to the kitchen. “This should suffice for today’s ration. I just have to be smart about it,” she thought as she looked over her phone, seeing the time tick closer to half six. “I can do at least two more buckets half well, and the fourth, well, that will have to do for today.”
She successfully completed this, before turning to cleaning the bathroom. She was running out of soap, but with a half hour left of the water, she was determined to get the bathroom washed. She was unable to find a rag, so she rooted around in her luggage to find an old cloth or towel she could use. She found a new cotton sari that she hadn’t particularly liked that had been gifted to her by a distant relative and in her desperation, she tore it up into pieces. She used the scraps that were falling apart to get as much grime as she could off and then poured ample amounts of water from the tap to scrub the rest away. She kept going at what seemed to be an impossible and never-ending task, attacking
the layers of gunk that had accumulated until she saw a clean, beautiful light blue tile.
“Today, just the floors, tomorrow, the walls,” she thought realizing that there was a window in the bathroom. She crouched up to open it and felt pain travel through her previously crouched body as she released that hunched position. The window wouldn’t budge at first, but she applied some force to open it just a crack. Immediately, she felt the city air drift in. In her mind, Lakshmi pretended that she was smelling the fragrance of the salt from the nearby Arabian Sea and not a fume filled breeze.
“Close that, crazy bitch,” she heard a voice behind her as her moment was disrupted with an angry voice. The voice of Vishnu. “Are you going to take a bath with all of Kochi looking at your body? This is not our village. They will make a blue movie of you, like this,” he said snapping his fingers together, gesturing the speed at which she would become notoriously known on the blue screens.
“Sorry, Vishnu ji,” she gently responded. All her hard work seemingly going unnoticed. “I opened it to dry the bathroom.”
He looked at her efforts, then with very little acknowledgement replied, “Okay, okay. Leave it open for some time and then, get me the cardamom tea and some breakfast. Then we have to go to Mr. Iyer’s by ten.”
Lakshmi nodded obediently, but in the morning efforts, hadn’t really thought through what she would make for breakfast. Vishnu and her hadn’t really discussed the household allowance or even how she would get to the market. The fridge was near empty when she looked inside it and she was absolutely at a loss on what she could whip up for him. At that very moment, there was a knock on the door. It was Ruby and she had brought some
paneer parathas, milk and some rations to get her new friend started.
“Ruby, darling,” Vishnu said endearingly. “How thoughtful.”
Lakshmi was also very grateful and showed it with a big embrace.
“Oh darling. This is nothing. Just a small welcome gift, pretty doll. Vishnu cannot…no, any man cannot be relied on for these things. These are stuffed bread. Famous from Punjab. I’ve gotten you a few starter things, too,” Ruby tattled on.
Lakshmi quickly put the tea on boil and profusely thanked Ruby for her generosity. Vishnu sat on one of their plastic chairs with a paratha in hand. “Pickle. Chai,” he ushered. “Now. Come on Lakshmi. Chop. Chop.”
Lakshmi hurried along, frantically. Ruby sat down next to Vishnu and started explaining to him the basics of what he now needed to do, now that he had a wife and was no longer a bachelor. “Lakshmi needs some money, Vishnu, and I can then take her to the market on the way back from Mr. Iyer’s this evening. She’ll need a little more at first. Don’t be stingy,” she explained to the brute.
He nodded as he chowed down, not fully focusing or grasping the conversation. Ruby sighed and looked at Lakshmi who had prepared tea in the mismatched cups and like the rest of the place, unclean tea cups. The state of the cups didn’t seem to bother Vishnu, but Ruby politely declined. Vishnu finished his breakfast, handed a measly 180 rupees to Lakhsmi, and then went into the now clean bathroom to get ready for the day.
Ruby looked at Lakshmi. She paused as she noticed the sweet innocence of this village girl and recalled how she had similarly come to Kochi with ideals of opportunity in the big city. She took a deep breath and asked Lakshmi to sit down next to her.
“Sweet sister, eat this,” Ruby said as she tore a piece of the last paratha that Vishnu had left behind and fed Lakshmi. “Today will be your first day at the Iyer’s, where you will be working as part of their staff. Vishnu has worked for them for years as their driver and they have graciously given you a position in their house cleaning department at their hotel. Wear a simple sari or salwar kameez. Nothing flashy. I will be with you today.”
Lakshmi was shocked by Ruby’s words as she hadn’t quite made the connection. Vishnu was a driver like Vinod back in their hometown and she was going to be a maid. The lies rung loud in her ears and she felt so ashamed. How many of these lies were Maa ji, Papa ji and the family aware of? The big fanfare of the wedding they had back in the village. All lies. All the girls vying for a chance to wed this “successful” Kochi businessman. In that moment, Lakshmi felt deeply embarrassed at the realization of her situation. She couldn’t tell her mother. She couldn’t tell Rani. It would be absolute shame for her family. Everyone will laugh at her family. And at her.
“Oh. Look how they paraded their daughter and rubbed it in our faces that she was marrying some prince,” a gossipy villager or nosy relative would say.
Lakshmi sighed and held back tears so as not to show Ruby her disappointment. She thought, “This is my fate. Goddess Lakshmi has decided on this path for me, and I must embrace the challenge of it. There will come a day that I will live a life of comfort in a true luxury 3BKH overlooking Marine Drive in the Queen of the Arabian Sea. Just not today.”
~
Around half nine, Lakshmi, Dravid and Ruby got into the car with Vishnu. They were all employees of the Iyer family. Vishnu,
a driver. Ruby worked in housekeeping and Lakshmi was soon to join her team. And then there was Dravid. Dravid was responsible for checking the daily accounts and overseeing the front desk at one of the Iyer family’s hotels, the Kochi Queen, where they all would be working. In fact, that’s how Vishnu had met Dravid and Ruby back in the day. Lakshmi learned that Papa ji had never intended Vishnu to go to college when he was exiled to Kochi. To him, Vishnu was a good for nothing burden on the family, so he called up his friend, Mr. Iyer, who owed him a favor. Mr. Iyer put Vishnu to work immediately at one of his hotels as a driver of the VIP clientele, whatever that meant as Lakshmi didn’t understand that acronym yet. After a twenty-minute ride through heavy traffic, they parked in front of the entrance of the Kochi Queen.
It wasn’t a grand or luxurious hotel but was a rundown three-story building. A few of the letters of the neon signage above the entrance were missing so that the hotel’s name read, “Koch ueen otel.” At the sight of this, Lakshmi immediately felt fear and a sense of queasiness in her gut. She did not have a good feeling at all about her future role here. She had an urge to run away back home to her small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills and just work on the cardamom estate for the rest of her life. Despite her wanting to be as far away from the village all her young life, she felt trapped.
She remembered that a woman cannot just leave her husband and run away, especially so soon into the marriage and without reason. She was from the labor class to begin with and they would mock her for the airs of rejecting the village elder’s grandson. Anyways, where would she run to? Going home would only bring shame to her family. With that thought in mind, she regained strength in practicality joined the trio as they entered the hotel’s foyer.
As they entered the dilapidated building, they were met by a dark green carpet letting out an slightly unpleasant odor and that looked like it had needed attention for a while now. The lighting was dim and the whole lobby area felt unwelcoming.
“Vishnu! Vishnu! Congratulations man on your marriage and welcome back!” a voice said from behind a window, “Mr. Iyer needs you to pick up some, eh, VIPs.”
“No problem, Karthik. Come out, meet my wife, Lakshmi,” Vishnu responded putting his arms around Lakshmi’s shoulders, “Isn’t she a beauty. My little village girl.”
“Vah, vah. What a firecracker! Anyone back in your village you can introduce me to?” Karthik said smiling in Lakshmi’s direction as he came out from under the desk area with a little bounce in his step.
“Hey, wait man. I have first dibs as Vishnu’s best man,” Dravid interceded.
Karthik was dress in a shiny purple shirt and wore tight black leather pants. He had a have gold chain and reeked of cheap cologne. He gave Lakshmi a tight hug, light air kisses on either cheek, and nodded his head in satisfaction, which made Lakshmi very uncomfortable and she moved nearer to Vishnu, holding on to him tightly.
“Mmmmhmmh, very fair and fresh. You, lucky devil, Vishnu. Mr. Iyer was very pleased with your choice. The clients will love her here, pretty like Ruby darling here,” he said as he put his hands on Ruby’s hips and then moved around to pinch her butt. “Tight,” he said as he held up an “okay” gesture in the air. Ruby quickly dismissed him with a gentle slap on his hand.
“These boys are cheeky, Lakshmi. Better watch out for them. Stay close to me these first weeks,” Ruby replied as she took Lakshmi’s hand and whisked her down a flight of stairs by the
lobby desk, down to the basement level to meet the rest of the housekeeping staff. Ruby told Lakshmi to wait by the stairs as she went into a changing room to dress into the mandated dark maroon uniform. It consisted of straight legged pants and a loose, gold-collared shirt with a breast pocket and two pockets on each side of the lower end of the shirt.
Once dressed, Ruby exited in her uniform. The top buttons of her uniform weren’t fully closed, exposing just enough of her God-given assets. Ruby handed Lakshmi a packet with another uniform folded neatly in a plastic sleeve. With a gentle smile, she said, “You look like a small. Go in there and quickly get dressed. Just fold the clothes you’re wearing and put in on the top shelf with mine. Maria ma’am is going to be here any minute now.”
Lakshmi did as she was told and quickly changed into her new uniform with the buttons closed all the way to the top, except for the top one. She wasn’t one to shy away from hard work, but she felt very dejected as this was not the lifestyle she had been promised. She was feeling extremely anxious as she had never been in such a deplorable place, but hid these feelings the best she could.
Ruby could sense her discomfort and recalled how she felt at the beginning as well when she arrived. “Soon. Yes, soon, she will just get used to the reality of adulthood in the big city. She is still so young. I miss the pure innocence of my youth,” Ruby thought as she reflected on her young twenty-year old self that had come to Kochi four years ago with such positive energy and high aspirations.
~
Chapter 5 – Gluttony (also possibly, Kaama)
“The flesh endures the storms of the present alone; the mind, those of the past and future as well as the present. Gluttony is a lust of the mind.”
~ Thomas Hobbes
“You must be the new girl?” a stout, middle aged woman with her hair in a tight bun, a large red bindi between her eyes questioned with authority. “Hmmmmm, let’s see. You are very fair and pretty. Mrs. Iyer likes your sort with the VIPs, but we must train you first.” With her pencil, Maria ma’am lifted Lakshmi’s chin as if inspecting a fruit at the stall and even asked her to spin around so she could examine her figure. Lakshmi found this inspection of her body odd as she didn’t see why this was at all necessary for a position as a hotel maid.
“Ruby, you’ve been here a while and see you two are friends. She will work your shifts going forward. You are the day shift, okay?!” Maria ma’am said curtly as Ruby nodded in consensus.
“Yes, yes, by next week she should be ready, eh? Very nice and fresh. But needs a little lipstick and some make-up. Not much. Just a bit,” Maria ma’am thought to herself as she continued to inspect Lakshmi silently. Lakshmi was not able to process the situation, and didn’t like the vibes she was getting from the rotund woman. Something didn’t feel entirely right to Lakshmi, but what had so far since she moved to Kochi. Maria ma’am continued to provide instructions to the rest of the morning crew, which consisted of two other young females that, like Ruby, who were dolled up in a full face of makeup.
The three stories above them consisted of a restaurant and entertainment space by the lobby area on the ground floor, and then a total of twenty-five rooms. On the first floor, there were twenty small rooms with two bathrooms at the end of the hallway to be shared by the guests. The second floor consisted of
five large VIP suites that included ensuite bathrooms and small kitchenettes.
Over the years, Ruby had worked herself up to the second floor. The guests tended to be lower rung government officials, small time finance professionals, upper middle-class boys exploring their sexual appetite for their first time, and others who just craved flesh away from their wives or the need for privacy as they engaged in their exploits. The VIP guests were less touchy, feely than the first-floor gentry, who felt that paying for their room entitled them to copping a feel of the hotel staff whenever they wanted to. Unfortunately, whether they were filthy slobs didn’t depend on their guest designation.
Ruby took out one of the two housekeeping carts and master key for the VIP suites and ushered Lakshmi to follow her into the elevators to the second floor.
“Stay close to me and in my line of sight today. You’ll soon get the hang of things, but until then, stay by me,” she whispered in Lakshmi’s ear as the rickety, small elevator went up to the second floor.
After exiting, Ruby whispered, “there are five rooms up here. Today, Room 201 is the only one that is unoccupied as Mr. Salah, a small-time sheikh who comes from the Dubai had an early morning flight back home. If his guest is there, we will ask her to leave immediately. For the rest of the rooms, we will leave to the later shift if it has a ‘Do not disturb’ sign on the door. Otherwise, we will knock and enter the room to clean,” she drew Lakshmi close to her and continued on, “As I said, stay close to me. We will clean, change the sheets, then vacuum and we’re out of there. Understood.” Lakshmi nodded.
No one was in Room 201 luckily and so Ruby and Lakshmi busied themselves with the cleaning. Ruby opened up the
windows that looked over the back alleyway where the dumpsters were, allowing some fresh air to dissipate the sweat and heavy cologne odors that were left behind.
Lakshmi had never stayed in a hotel before. It hadn’t quite dawned on her what type of establishment this was just yet. The place was certainly classier than the shanty outside her small village on the outskirts of Idukki, but it gave her similar vibes although she did not quite make that connection. There was quite a bit of cleaning to do after the sheikh’s visit. The sheets were stained, the tea station was a mess, and there were no words to describe the condition of the bathroom. “At least it’s cleaner than the bathroom at home,” Lakshmi thought as she applied a disinfectant in the toilet bowl as Ruby had instructed. She admired the shower stall as she wiped it down, having only seen these in the movies. Focusing on the positive, Lakshmi observed that her new house didn’t have one but at least she didn’t have to fetch water from a well as she had done back in the village to take a bath.
Ruby provided Lakshmi with further instructions on how to clean each room and then remarked, “This is just a two-night stay.” After hesitating, she tsked, “But I’ve seen a lot worse.”
This was pretty bad in Lakshmi’s mind, so she tried to prepare herself for an even more challenging situation in the next room. Once done and checked off in the housekeeping log, the girls proceeded to Room 202 which had a “Do Not Disturb” sign on the door. Ruby reminded Lakshmi that the PM staff would take care of it. They moved on to the rest of the rooms, with only Room 204 being occupied presently, but no “Do not disturb” sign on the door. When they knocked, they heard a deep, old voice reply, “Come in.”
An obese, balding man who clearly had a bad combover lay naked, half covered by the sheets watching a dirty flick on his
phone while masturbating. Unphased, he briefly paused to look at the girls and continued on.
“Ah, Mr. Rao, sir. So sorry to disturb you,” Ruby politely interrupted, diverting her eyes while Lakshmi couldn’t stop staring. Ruby gently nudged Lakshmi, who then looked away.
“Ruby, ah, I’m almost done,” he said between deep gasps. “She’s in the bathroom getting ready to leave, can you come back in twenty minutes?” It was appalling, but also perplexing how casually Mr. Rao sat there massaging himself while conversing to Ruby. Then Lakshmi caught his eye, and he abruptly stopped. He cleaned off his hand on the bedsheets, got up and approached her with the same bedsheet now loosely wrapped around him. Lakshmi shuddered as he got close to her.
“New girl? Where did Mr. Iyer find this beauty?” Mr. Rao said almost salivating as he examined Lakshmi. “Tight body, fresh face, milky skin. She’ll be a favorite. What’s your name, princess?” He reached forward to touch Lakshmi but Ruby took his hand playfully and inserted herself between him and Lakshmi.
With a coy, but forced smile, Ruby explained giggling to diffuse the awkwardness of the encounter, “This is Lakshmi. Lakshmi, Mr. Rao is one of the naughtiest of boys that visits us.” She laughed as she gently stroked his curly, oily hairy chest causing him to childishly laugh at the sensation. “He’s one of the most powerful men in central Kochi that visits our humble accommodations,” and in that moment, Ruby changed her tone to a sultry, teasing one, changing the direction of the conversation, “We have been very bad girls, Judge sahib, we should really be addressing you properly. Can you dismiss our case and let us off this time?”
Judge Rao erupted in hearty laughter, “Yes, dismissed. Dismissed. Our Punjabi half-caste vixen.” He pinched Ruby’s cheek in jest. At that moment, Julie, his companion came out in nothing but a heavily worn-out towel, which she casually dropped, revealing her naked body. She put on her a bright pink thong and matching bra. Julie was an Anglo-Indian Christian girl from Goa who had thick, luscious locks that cascaded down to her hips. She was a shapely woman, nearing thirty with large breasts.
She looked dead serious at Judge Rao and said without any dilly dallying, “Mr. Iyer is expecting cash payment for last month still. He says if you don’t pay today then no more Julie for…” she looked at Ruby and then said, “your lulli.” The girls cracked up laughing. By context of the situation, Lakshmi was now fully put it together. The Kochi Queen was a “classier” house of pleasure than the shanty back home. The famous Mr. Iyer and family were in the business of ill repute.
“See Lakshmi,” Judge Rao said as he shuffled through his briefcase for cash. “Very naughty. But you are still so pure. Like a flower blossom newly plucked and untouched.” He took out a wad of cash and counted out ten 1,000-rupee bills before handing them over to Julie in satisfaction of the services rendered. Lakshmi’s eyes grew big. She had never seen so much money in her life. Upon seeing her reaction, Judge Rao took another bill from his wad, handed it to Lakshmi and said, “Here my little flower, a small blessing for you for your new beginnings.” Lakshmi froze not knowing what the proper protocol in this situation was and feeling very uncomfortable in the interaction. She looked down to her feet and shook her head. He smiled and lifted her head up with his unwashed fingers. He then tucked the 1,000-rupee bill into her breast pocket, tapped
the pocket and let out a tiny groan. “Nice bounce,” they could hear him say under his breath.
Lakshmi gulped. “What hell have I come to, Goddess Lakshmi?” she thought, her tears held back in fear. Judge Rao walked back to the bed and started putting on his clothes, and said, “Come back in a bit. I’m going for lunch and you can clean then.” The girls were silent as they headed back downstairs to the basement level.
The PM shift would see to his room as they had cleaned all the rooms, but Room 204. It had been a very late day and neither had eaten, so they headed to the kitchen where they met a middle-aged chef with a full head of grey-streaked hair and his staff of one, a young boy not more than seventeen who was primarily in charge of dishwashing and serving the guests.  They had just finished the lunch service, which usually only consisted of ten to fifteen patrons, some guests and some locals coming in for a quick bite.
“Chef Vijaya brother, what can you feed two hungry girls?” Ruby said sheepishly.
Chef Vijaya turned around from his workstation of the small kitchen to face the two beautiful young women. Lakshmi immediately noticed his dreamy dark eyes, sharp features and perfect teeth behind a warm, inviting smile. “Oh, why hello, Ruby, my favorite queen of the Kochi Queen. We have some fish fry and leftover vegetarian biryani. Will that do my highness?” he responded. He then noticed the shy, beautiful girl next to Ruby. “And who is this, my Queen? Your lady in waiting?”
Ruby loved his sense of humor and laughed whole-heartedly. He was always kind and charming. Not like the other men in her life. She introduced Lakshmi to Chef Vijaya, while the young lad cleaned up and prepped for dinner service behind them. The
kitchen would soon close till dinner service began again in the evening. Chef Vijaya would take a nap in between these shifts in the quarters provided on-site, one of the perks of the jobs, while the boy would go back to his home in a nearby slum before returning.
Chef Vijaya started prepping two plates with healthy portions. He was about to put the fish fry on the second plate, but Lakshmi waved at him and let him know that she only ate vegetarian food.
“Oh my, you don’t know what you’re missing out on. Here in Kochi, we eat it all. Veg, egg, birds, goat, and even cow,” Chef Vijaya said as he winked. “This is not your village. Here, try some.”
Lakshmi hesitated and politely insisted, “Another time. Thank you, Chef.”
He looked at Ruby, “Well, I tried. Let’s see how long this girl lasts on her veg diet, huh?” They both had a laugh, with Lakshmi smiling not knowing why what she said caused such amusement for them. Chef Vijaya having provided the girls with a delicious, comforting meal. left the kitchen to take his afternoon slumber before his night shift.
As the women chatted over a deliciously, perfectly balanced biryani, Lakhsmi thought how Chef Vijaya was the first man that she had met that hadn’t treated her like an object. He was very handsome and in this hell hole she had arrived at, she strangely felt safe with him. Safe with him and with Ruby.
The young women finished up their meals, handed the plates to the boy, and went back to change back into their clothes.
“I’ll take you to the market now to get some groceries for the house,” Ruby said to Lakhsmi.
“How about Vishnu? Shouldn’t I wait for him? I haven’t seen or heard from him all day,” Lakhsmi inquired.
“He usually works till Mr. Iyer needs him to. He is on a flex schedule. Don’t worry, I’ll take care of you, my dear. We girls will have some fun, especially with that generous 1,000 rupees from Judge Rao. He only gave me 500 when I started but he was not a judge then,” she said all giggly. “Let’s keep this 1,000 rupees between you and me, though.” Lakhsmi didn’t understand what Ruby meant. She didn’t realize Ruby was protecting her as she foresaw what would happen if Vishnu found out. Ruby knew the temper tantrum he would throw, which would escalate with alcohol he would buy with the rupees, further igniting his jealousy. He was an insecure slime ball, but still not the worst of them in Kochi sadly. Ruby saw that Lakhsmi was still a little lamb, but knew that she would grow up very fast here in the city and especially in the pit of vice, the Kochi Queen.
~
Lakshmi and Ruby went to an open market where vendors were selling all sorts of items. Spices, vegetables, household goods, beauty products, and more. There were also a fair number of stalls serving different kinds of foods and fried snacks. Lakshmi was at awe by the variety. She had never seen so many shops and people in one place in her life. It was hard to navigate around the crowds on her own and people constantly invaded her space without apologizing, which she found a bit irritating. “They are so unfriendly,” she thought as Ruby took her hand and drew her to a food stall where a man was making bread covered in tomato sauce and lots of cheese. Separately in a vat of oil, he was frying up some potatoes cut into long finger-like shapes.
“Have you ever had pizza and potato fries? Amerika food,” Ruby said as Lakhsmi watched the street vendor shake the oil off of
the fries and toss it in a mix of masala spices before handing it to Ruby. Lakhsmi took one, bit into it and yelped.
“Hot! It burned my tongue, but wow, very tasty. I’ve never had these. What are they again?” Lakhsmi said with a big smile full of childlike joy.
“Masala fries,” Ruby said with a smile. “And, try this. Pizza.”
“Oh my god, delicious,” Lakshmi said, her eyes lit up with delight as she took a bite. “Peej-za.” Lakshmi thought how much Rani would delight in this food. They had watched Tollywood movies where the actresses would go to foreign destinations and indulge in such exotic foods, but it was something else tasting it for the first time. These positive new experiences kept her desire and dream alive.
They passed a vendor selling costume jewelry and Lakhsmi was amazed by the variety of earrings, necklaces, hair clips, and more that were available. Ruby and her tried a few, but Ruby told her that they didn’t need to buy anything. After some more fun, Ruby introduced Lakshmi to her vegetable vendor, but really a vendor of all things household as he not only owned the vegetable stall but the shop behind.
“Basu Bhai. Namaskar. I want you to meet my new friend, Vishnu’s wife,” Ruby introduced. After some small talk, Ruby went on, “If she comes here without me, you will treat her well too. I’ve been coming so long and look I’ve now brought you another customer.” Basu Bhai smiled and nodded and the two chatted away and bargained on grocery prices. Lakhsmi went in and out of the conversation, just mesmerized by the different items available that she had never seen before. Different types of stainless-steel vessels, utensils, and more. A whole shelf dedicated to never-ending variety of packaged spices. Another shelf housing a selection of basmati rice of various brands.
“Hahn, hahn. Same to same. You know I’m honesty is best policy. I’m not cheater,” Lakshmi could hear Basu Bhai tell Ruby.
“Okay, Lakshmi, 150 rupees here,” Ruby took the money from Lakhsmi and paid Basu Bhai.
Lakshmi had been eyeing a planter and soil in Basu Bhai’s shop. She asked them to pause as she fetched these and hurried back for both. “For my Gangalee seeds,” Lakshmi said with a big smile. Basu Bhai was so moved by her happiness and innocence that he said, “Ah hai, very sweet. Because you are Ruby’s new friend and new to the city, this is free with everything today. But come back and shop here at Basu Bhai’s, I have the best deals in all of Kochi.”
As they were walking back to the apartment, they talked more about themselves to one another. Lakshmi told Ruby of the Gangalee fields back home and how she used to sit in the mornings under the sun and sketch. “You’ll have to show me your drawings some time,” Ruby told her.
Upon seeing Vishnu’s car downstairs, Ruby held Lakhsmi back and whispered to her, “The rest of the money that Judge Rao gave you, keep it somewhere hidden from everyone, even from Vishnu. From what you earn at the hotel over your wages, don’t give everything to him. He will drink it away. Keep some aside for yourself. Maybe one day you will need it. Please listen to me, Lakhsmi. You are like my little sister and I am so happy that you are here now.”
The women headed up to their floor and found Vishnu and Dravid crapped out on the couch in Vishnu and Lakhsmi’s apartment, working their way through cheap beers with a number of empty cans laying around the floor already. “What took you both so long?” an angered Vishnu asked. “Mr. Iyer let
us go early because he said my bride would be waiting and I should not keep her. Bitch! Where were you?” he questioned as he came at Lakhsmi. Ruby, once again, intervened with her body and disarmed an irate, drunken Vishnu.
“Chill, bro. She was with me. After our shift, we went shopping for household groceries. Remember, you have nothing in your fridge because you’ve been living like a dirty scoundrel all these years,” she said teasingly, but firmly. Ruby could hold her own with men like him. Vishnu was a light weight in comparison to the drunken men she had handled all her life. And her lifelong dream to break into the Tollywood royalty gave her the pleasure of meeting even more assholes like him.
“Okay, okay.,” he said, backing down. “All this with the money I gave you this morning?” His sharp stare pierced Lakhsmi who was tempted to tell him about her interaction with Judge Rao, but she heeded Ruby’s advice and averted her eyes. She knew Vishnu was a very jealous man that if she said anything like that, he would hurt her again or send her back to their village.
“Ruby, she is good at haggling. Without her, I’m not sure I would have been able to get all these things,” Lakhsmi replied looking at Ruby with a gracious smile. In that moment, Ruby was very proud of Lakhsmi for holding her own, and she also knew that Vishnu had already shown the poor girl his true colors, which didn’t surprise her at all. “He isn’t even the worst of them, which says a lot in itself,” she thought as she rolled her eyes in her head, “But this girl is hungry for opportunity like I was. She is going to be okay and tough it out with this bozo until she can leave. Maybe he’ll leave just a few bruises here and there, but she will be okay.”
With the atmosphere calmer now, the two couples sat and chatted for a while over Lakshmi’s freshly brewed cardamom tea and Parle-G biscuits. Then, the two women broke from the boys
as they watched the news and the women proceeded to put away the grocery items and prepare a simple dinner of sambar and dosas.
The late evening grew to night, and then the two couples retired to bed.
“See you tomorrow,” Ruby and Dravid said. Ruby then added, “I’ll be half an hour early tomorrow.”
“Good night,” Lakshmi said cheerfully to Ruby. She was so relieved to find a friend in her. “Thank you, Goddess Lakshmi for bringing me guidance in the form of this earth angel. Even though this is not the life I had anticipated, I know you are there guiding me and will send me in the right direction so that one day I will be living on Marine Drive, in the comfort of my home with helpers as had been promised to me,” she thought quietly to herself.
With Ruby and Dravid gone, it was just Vishnu and herself and Lakshmi dreaded every second of it. He asked her to make another cardamom tea as he sat texting on his cell phone and watching sports news. When in the kitchen, Lakshmi heard him take a call.
“Yes, yes, Mr. Iyer sir. Yes, I’ll be at the airport. 5am. Yes,” she could hear Vishnu’s deference to Mr. Iyer she had never witnessed him display in the village. She thought, “In the village, he acts like an entitled king. Here, he is Mr. Iyer’s puppy dog.” She caught herself, realizing that she was talking about her husband in an unkind way.
“Lakshmi, forget the tea. I’m heading to bed. I have to pick up a VIP in the morning, so wake me up at 3 am. Go with Ruby and Dravid tomorrow to the hotel for your shift.” And with that, he disappeared into the bedroom.
Lakshmi was relieved as she saw her husband go to bed. She had made the tea, so she was delighted that she could sit for a bit and enjoy it by herself. As she sat there, she marveled at all the fun, new experiences she had that day at the market with Ruby. Being at the hotel, however, was another matter, but her youthful exuberance allowed her to push that experience aside. Then, her phone buzzed. It was a text reply from her mother.
“Good you reach. Family is miss you, our little gem. Rgds to Vishnu ji. Good night with love.” The text brought a feeling of warmth and tears rolled down her cheeks as she thought of all the lies her parents were told about the promised life in the big city. Thankfully, her family only had one cell phone amongst themselves and limited access. Her father must have topped up the sim card today because she hadn’t heard from them in a few days.
“What would I tell them. What if they ever want to do a video call,” she thought to herself. “The shame.” And that empty feeling of despair that she had felt before returned as she sat quietly on the sofa. Eventually, exhaustion got the better of her and she drifted to sleep on the sofa as she had done the night before.
~
All of a sudden, she heard a loud ringing. Her alarm was going off. She looked at the clock on her phone. 2:35am. It had felt like only a few moments of rest that she had gotten. She was used to waking up early, having done it all her life, but today she so desperately wanted to stay sleeping. She was able to sacrifice her desire to sleep in to avoid Vishnu’s impending wrath. Plus, she thought, once he was gone, she could spend the rest of the morning cleaning the house and planting her Gangalee seeds in the pot that Basu Bhai so kindly gifted her.
She put on some water for the tea and took out the batter to make idli. It was so easy to cook with a gas stove instead of having to start the fire as she had needed to do early in the morning at her village home. She appreciated these small luxuries that she was afforded by her new life in Kochi, although not quite at the level she had been told she would have. She reset her mind, focusing on the positive highlights of her new life so as not to be bogged down with all the unpleasant realities she had been facing. She recalled her grandmother saying when Lakshmi’s mother would scold her for daydreaming, “My granddaughter, a dream doesn't become reality through magic or prayers. You will have to put in sweat, determination and hard work into it. Dare to dream, but then don’t sit around for it to come to you. Go grab it for yourself.”
As she was getting things ready in the morning, she realized she had forgotten to wake Vishnu up and it was now ten past the hour. She hurried to the bedroom and tapped him in hopes he would wake up. When he didn’t, she went and turned on the lights. He was out like a log. She then shook him gently and heard him angrily moan, then turn over. She shook him a little harder.
A disgruntled Vishnu woke. “Whaaaat?” he bellowed.
“You, uh, told me to wake you. Airport. Mr. Iyer,” she muttered.
“Okay, okay,” he said as he signaled her out of the room. As she turned to leave, he had looked at his phone. He grabbed her before she could walk safely away and pulled her towards him. “Whore. You stupid, bitch. What, did you sleep in? It’s quarter past. I told you three. Three on the dot.” With the back of his hand, he smacked her hard and his wedding ring hit her jaw bone sending a shocking pain through her delicate face. She yelped as she crouched away to protect herself in case he hit her again. “Hurry with my tea, village urchin.”
Lakshmi dared not cry in front of him and quickly did as she was told, scurrying out of the room like a scared cat. She got his tea ready. The idlis were just about ready and she heated up some sambar. She put these out on the coffee table as they didn’t have a dining area as Ruby and Dravid had at their apartment. She waited for the tyrant to come for breakfast after he freshened up in the bathroom and put on his driver’s uniform: a white shirt, black slacks and a driver’s hat.
He looked at his shoes and threw them at her, “Why haven’t you polished these yet?”
She had never polished shoes before. There was never a need to. She had no idea what to do. She grabbed one of her rags from the day before and knelt by him as he ate his breakfast and she polished his shoes the best she knew how to. “Hurry. I’m late. Crazy cunt. Put them on now,” he bellowed. She quietly obeyed and dared not meet his eyes in fear he would get even angrier at her. He’d be gone in just a short while and then she’d be free to start her day the way she wanted to. She kept this thought with herself.
She was so excited to plant the Gangalee seeds and start her little garden on the windowsill of the kitchen. She would put her Goddess Lakshmi statuette that her grandmother had given her when she was a little girl right there. Plus, she couldn’t wait for the beautiful, luminous flowers to emerge. They needed very little care to bloom as vibrantly as they did and brought her so much joy. “It would certainly brighten up this dingy place,” Lakshmi thought to herself as she put on the oaf’s shoes.
With a humph, Vishnu got up and hurriedly raced out of the apartment to his car. He was to pick up another one of Mr. Iyer’s VIP clients who was flying in from the Middle East. When he left, Lakshmi felt so relieved and took a big sigh of relief. Even
though the apartment was in tatters, his absence uplifted the entire place. In her mind, that was a small win in itself.
The very first thing Lakshmi did was to pull out her statuette, put it on the kitchen’s window sill and prayed to Goddess Lakhsmi for guidance and strength. Then, she poured the soil Basu Bhai had gifted her in the pot and bored three 2-inch holes with her index finger, spaced about an inch apart. She put two seeds in each hole and covered this with fresh soil. Then, she watered the soil.
“In a few days, we’ll start to see some sprouts and, in a few months, they will bloom. These flowers bloom all year round. Hmmmm, purple blossoms. Purple and light blue would be such a nice change to this desolate place,” she thought to herself as she busied herself with cleaning the remaining buckets and washing the floors. As she did this, she also prepped dinner and also made Rava Kesari Bhath, a simple sweet dish. She still had no idea what her and Vishnu’s schedule was going to be like, so wanted to be prepared either way.
“Daughter,” she recalled her mother’s voice, “You must be patient. In the beginning, it takes time for everything to fall in place. Don’t expect things to just happen. I’ve been with your father for now how much years. When I met him, he was just a boy. Now he is a man. But it takes a strong woman to make him that way.” Lakshmi reflected on this advice. “It’ll just take time. I must be strong. He is still just a boy.” She justified his ill treatment of her with this notion.
Lakshmi’s hands were raw from scrubbing and cleaning, but she had made great progress and was proud of how the apartment was transforming. She was able to clean the floors of all the rooms so they were no longer grimy. Actually, having washed the floors, she slowly felt a warmth to the apartment. She stood up after spending most of the morning on her knees or at the stove
and admired her work. There was no longer a lingering odor of what resembled rotting garbage and sweat. Satisfied, she took a bit of the sweet dish she had prepared earlier and fed it to the Goddess. She closed her eyes and prayed some more for more goodness to come into her life.
As she looked around at what to tackle next, she thought, “There isn’t much I can do with that sofa to get that clean. If I wash it, it will be wet and if Vishnu sits on it, the dampness will upset him. Maybe I can ask Ruby what I can do when she comes.” She then looked at the clock. “Oh, my. I must get ready.”
She found such peacefulness in the apartment with Vishnu gone. Now that it was clean, she took a much-needed bath and washed her hair, which flowed down her lower back. The water was no longer hot, but she didn’t mind that at all. She had worked up quite a sweat having done all that work and the cool water actually felt good.
She rustled through her bags and found a bottle of lotion and the perfumed oil her mother had prepared. Today, she massaged the lotion all over her body and dabbed a bit of the oil on the pulse points and a little in her locks, which she let air dry as she waited for Ruby. She felt very happy today having cleaned the house and planted the seeds for her purple blossoms. She had on a simple light blue salwar kameez, with little purple flowers and a matching blue bindi. She also decided to put on some light blush, lilac eyeshadow and kajal to accentuate her almond-shaped eyes.
She looked at herself in the mirror and admired her beauty. “Goddess Lakshmi. It is by no mistake that you have led me here to Kochi. The mystic was right. I am destined to be great and one day I will have a 3 BHK on Marine Drive.” Her concentration was broken by a loud knock on the door. It was Ruby and Dravid.
“Good morning,” Ruby greeted Lakshmi, who was so very happy to see her friend. “Wow, the apartment looks amazing and it smells so fresh.” Ruby complimented Lakshmi as she embraced her friend.
“Ruby, big sister, I made Rava Kesari Bhath. For sweet new beginnings,” Lakshmi said as she handed Ruby a bowl. She acknowledged Dravid’s existence, but didn’t really acknowledge him. She did not like him very much and that was obvious through her body language. However, Dravid seemed to be the more harmless of the two men.
“This is so delicious,” Ruby said. “Dravid, eat some. Here. You have magic in your hands, little sister.” Dravid nodded as he enjoyed the sweet dish as well, but noticing the time, urged the girls to hurry up so they weren’t late for their duty at the Kochi Queen Hotel.
~
The trio set off from their apartment building and walked about ten minutes to a busier main road where there were throngs of people waiting for a bus. Lakshmi and Ruby had taken the bus home yesterday evening and it had been busy, but today, it seemed like triple the number of people were now waiting in line. Ruby whispered to Lakshmi, “You have to fight your way in. Here, hold my hand and push your way through. Don’t apologize to anyone. Just keep going.”
Lakshmi did just that and when a large rusty container on six wheels came rattling past, she pushed her way through the crowds holding tightly onto Ruby’s hand. The bus was packed with all sorts of people. Old people that weren’t given a seat, sweaty men pressed against the next person and more closely if a woman, screaming babies, college aged students, and more.
The saving grace was that the trio had made it onto the bus and as the bus drove on, a gentle breeze swooshed into the bus compartment holding the human sardines, providing a bit of relief in the heat and sweat.
Lakshmi enjoyed this breeze. It smelled like the sea, which she couldn’t wait to go see. Ruby had mentioned that over the weekend on their day off she would convince Vishnu and Dravid that they should all have a beach day. Lakshmi had never seen the ocean before and once she did, she would be the farthest she had been from her small village on the outskirts of Idukki. “I’ve come this far,” she thought to herself as she breathed in the beautiful sea air, “Rani would absolutely love this.” As the bus rode on, Ruby noticed Lakshmi’s wistful look and remembered how the new experiences of living in the big city had once seemed so invigorating and exciting to her as well. Unfortunately, that sensation had faded over time as life became mundane and rote.
~
Day two at the hotel was much like the prior day, but less daunting to Lakshmi as a bit of the novelty had worn off. Ruby and Lakshmi swiftly changed into their uniforms that were laundered once a week, then headed to get instructions from Maria ma’am, who was curt and firm as always. She warned the girls that VIP suite 204 had an especially loud and rambunctious party in their room the night before and that the two should be extra thorough in their cleaning.
As Ruby and Lakshmi headed upstairs to start their day, hoping not to have a chance encounter with a rowdy, callous guest, Lakshmi sheepishly asked Ruby if they were going to have lunch in the kitchen again today. Lakhsmi had felt unusually excited to come to this god-awful establishment, and hadn’t yet realized
that Chef Vijaya had lit that small spark in her. He was such a gentleman and he was so talented in creating delicious flavors in the biryani she had yesterday. She felt his talents were surely wasted in a place like the Kochi Queen Hotel.
“Is it his food you like, Lakshmi?” Ruby poked fun at her friend. “Don’t forget you are a married woman. He’s off limits to you.”
Lakshmi smiled coyly, “No, big sister. I love to cook and he has so much experience in making such interesting dishes. I have never had a biryani like his before and want to know how he does it.”
“Sure, sure,” Ruby said, knowing that Chef Vijaya had broken the hearts of many of the women at the hotel. He was a bit of a player with women, but was also laser focused on his goals. Ruby knew that Chef Vijaya had loftier dreams and he wasn’t going to allow some village girl or housekeeper stop him from getting to a luxury hotel somewhere foreign like in the Middle East. He had worked so hard to network with the VIP guests, attending to their every desire. Sure, he flirted with many of the young women, but his true passion was working the small circuit of Middle Eastern sheikhs that came through the seedy establishment. He had hopes that just one would sponsor his visa to work in Dubai or Doha or somewhere fancy. Like Ruby and many others who had come to Kochi, he was working at his dream, one day at a time. And a young woman like Ruby or Lakshmi was only an obstacle to the goal.
Chef Vijaya had come to Kochi as a young man to study engineering after securing a seat with a full scholarship at the top university. This was an incredible feat for someone from a lower caste. He had achieved this and not through the misguided poverty quota system. Although extremely gifted in mathematics and design, he found the program stuffy and too competitive. Just a year and half into the program, he dropped out.
His parents were furious with him for ruining his and his family’s future. His parents disowned him, afraid that his failure would adversely affect his sister’s chances of marrying into a good home. So, Chef Vijaya remained in Kochi to shield his family from the shame.
At first, he slept on friends’ couches, but as soon as those invitations ran out, he spent some time on the streets until he met Mr. Iyer who was looking for a dishwasher/waiter and was providing room and board. Chef Vijaya leapt at the opportunity. As a dishwasher, he often found himself assisting Chef Sanjeev and over time, with his guidance guidance, Chef Vijaya found his passion for cuisine. Many years later, Chef Vijaya had worked his way up the chain to his current position and although the work was stressful, he enjoyed experimenting with different foods and spices. It seemed the guests appreciated it and he equally loved the compliments he would receive. There had been opportunities in the past to move up north to work in a three-star hotel and even offers to work at a resort in Goa, but Chef Vijaya found it hard to break his loyalty to Mr. Iyer. If Chef Vijaya was going to leave, he was going to go somewhere foreign.
~
VIP Suite 204 was exactly as Maria Ma’am had described. An absolute chaotic mess and the smell that emanated out to the hallway was unbearable. As they opened the door, they saw empty alcohol bottles lay strewn across the floor and in places smashed. There were random pools of vomit. The bedsheets were stained with blood and semen and used condoms lay everywhere. The girls sighed and looked at each other in dismay. The only saving grace was that the guests had checked out. However, they hadn’t even bother to leave a tip to cover the damages.
“Mr. Iyer will see to them,” Ruby muttered as she drew the curtains and opened the windows to allow some fresh air in.
The room didn’t just need a refresh. It needed an absolute overhaul. It was going to be a long, tiring day. With double the gloves on, the girls first tackled all the debris and took it out to the garbage chute. Next, they stripped the bed of all its sheets. The mattresses were covered with waterproof covers that seemed to have never been replaced and simply wiped down. Ruby had Lakhsmi scrub that waterproof cover as she tackled the pools of vomit. Two hours in, the girls had made significant progress. Maria ma’am came around to check, “Good. You girls are an excellent team. Mrs. Iyer is going to like you, little one. You are a hard worker and very pretty.”
Lakshmi couldn’t quite understand what her beauty had to do with Mrs. Iyer liking her or how well she was doing her job. She asked Ruby what that could possibly mean, but Ruby dismissed it as something not to worry about yet. They spent another hour getting the room to 90% of its former self before moving on to the rest of the rooms. Luckily, two of the other rooms had been unoccupied the night before and they could finish their shift with some time left to head downstairs to have lunch at Chef Vijaya’s kitchen.
~
Today, Chef Vijaya was serving up lunch thalis, which consisted of a variety of different South Indian dishes. He dished out some sambar and rice for the girls with papadum and coconut chutney. Just as yesterday’s meal had been, Lakshmi found the food so heavenly. She couldn’t help herself and she grabbed Chef Vijaya’s attention to ask what techniques and spices he used just as he was headed out for his afternoon break between shifts.
“I’ve never had sambar like this. Tell me how you make it like this?” Lakshmi pleaded.
“Oh, let Chef Vijaya go rest, Lakshmi,” Ruby said pulling Lakshmi away. “We’ll give him this trouble on his day off on Friday. The restaurant is closed that day.” Ruby shooed Chef Vijaya who would have more than willingly stayed behind to chat with Lakshmi. He found her captivating and her naivety so refreshing.
“Yes, let’s chat Friday. I’ll tell you all my trade secrets,” Chef Vijaya said with a wink directed at Lakshmi.
Lakshmi’s felt a flutter in her stomach and she responded with a warm smile. “Careful,” Ruby said, noticing the exchange. “Don’t forget you are a married woman and Chef Vijaya is a player just like all men. Don’t be fooled by his charm.”
Lakshmi and Ruby giggled at that which somewhat dampened the seriousness of Ruby’s advice. She had been burned more than once by men like Chef Vijaya and was confident he was no different. She felt very protective over Lakhsmi. Lakhsmi, on the other hand, was oblivious to the advice she received and dismissed it. She enjoyed the attention directed at her from this gentleman. It was a refreshing change to be treated with dignity, something she was certain she would never receive at home.
~
After their shift, the girls decided to walk home. It would take them an hour, but it was good to stretch out their legs before they went home. Lakhsmi told Ruby that she had made dinner enough for all of them if her and Dravid wanted to come over that evening. Ruby was more than delighted, although she wasn’t sure if Vishnu and Dravid would be home that evening.
“It all depends on the VIPs, but usually the boys will not be home till late. They may have to chauffeur some guests from different venues. You get used to the uncertainty, but at least we have each other now. It was so lonely before,” Ruby told Lakshmi with a smile. “Change of plans. How about we go to the promenade on Marine Drive today?”
Lakshmi thought that was a wonderful idea. She was still getting used to the idea that her husband was a driver and not the successful businessman that his family paraded him to be. He had duped them as well. His identity had been well hidden all these years, something that could only be possible in Kochi. She thought that if he could conceal this from a whole village, she could certainly do her part not to expose her circumstances to her family. She could not imagine the sheer pain it would bring to her family, especially to her mother and father. They had been so proud of her being married off and with no dowry. They thought of Lakshmi as their lucky charm after they endured so much loss and she would be sure to protect their honor and feelings for all the sacrifices they had made.
~
The girls walked all the way to Marine Drive, which didn’t seem as far as they had been chatting away the whole time. Lakshmi was so excited to see the sea for the first time and was glad that she didn’t have to wait for the weekend to do so. She couldn’t believe her eyes and rushed over to the promenade’s edge to reach down and touch the water.
“Careful,” Ruby said as she held Lakshmi tightly so she wouldn’t fall in. “You can’t swim. You don’t want to fall in there.”
Lakshmi splashed the water, then cupped some in her palms and threw some at Ruby. She laughed so whole-heartedly, like a little
child oblivious to the world’s woes. Ruby could feel the renewed energy of Lakshmi’s. These feelings were the same blissful joys Ruby had felt when she had left the landlocked farming village in Punjab and came down to pursue her dreams. It was so invigorating to see Lakshmi enjoy these simple moments of happiness and be momentarily blind to the garbage heaps or makeshift shelters that were scattered along the promenade.
“I’ll have to take you to Fort Kochi one day. It’s farther north from here. They have a beach area and you can feel the sand beneath your feet. Maybe this weekend we can go with the boys,” Ruby said as Lakshmi skipped on along the promenade.
The girls came to a pier area where there were a number of boats. “Ruby, Ruby. Can we go for a ride? I’ve never been on a boat, let alone on the sea,” Lakshmi excitedly pleaded with Ruby.
“No. Not today. We should head back soon. It is getting late and it’ll soon be dark. When we come with the boys over the weekend, we can take the water taxi to Fort Kochi. We’ll make a day of it,” Ruby said as she and Lakshmi headed back to their apartment building.
~
Once home, Lakshmi asked Ruby what she could do with the sofa that sat looking so defeated and depressing in the corner of the small apartment. Lakshmi didn’t have enough money to buy another one and she certainly didn’t know if scrubbing it would do it any good.
“The sofa cover comes off. Here, see. You can wash this.” Ruby said. Lakshmi was impressed and also wondered how long it had sat there covering the sofa, never having been dusted or cleaned.
“You can make your own cover and cushions to decorate and liven up the place,” Ruby continued. “I can help. I use anything
and everything I can find for my home. You can’t rely on men for taste. And you’re certainly not going to need all those clothes from your wedding. You will have no place to wear them here,” Ruby said.
Lakshmi was mortified. She couldn’t cut up these expensive, boutique clothes to decorate this apartment, but on the other hand, she realized the practicality of the situation. She could save a few pieces as a memory, but she certainly wasn’t going to any fancy business receptions or cocktail parties as she had been promised and trained for by Maa ji. She wouldn’t be hobnobbing with local dignitaries and movie stars. At least not now. For now, she was the wife of a driver and it was time for her to act like one. It would be difficult to choose which sari to use first, but she could think of that tomorrow. For now, she made her special cardamom tea for herself and her new city friend. They ripped off the stinky sofa cover to find a decently cream sofa with some staining beneath, laid one of Lakshmi’s plainer saris over it and sat down to enjoy the tea and Parle-G biscuits. Lakshmi felt like the lady of her house and pretended she was hosting a small tea party, much like the ones she would have at Kanika madam’s on her family’s cardamom estate.
~
Ruby left around ten that evening. Lakshmi was exhausted after the very long day, but the excitement of the day and seeing the Arabian Sea for the first time kept her from feeling restful. She was also anxious that Vishnu hadn’t returned. In fact, he never came home that night. She felt a bit terrified, all alone in this apartment in a new city, that was still not quite her home. She felt a bit of relief knowing that Ruby was just down the hall from her and she at least knew Ruby was someone she could trust.
She faded away into a sweet slumber sometime around four in the morning. She heard a loud knock on the door. She woke up startled. It was Ruby who had come to pick her up for the shift. A very tired Lakshmi opened her eyes that had been crusted shut from her short nap.
“Oh my god,” a flustered Lakshmi exclaimed as she opened the door to Ruby, “I slept in. I slept in. I forgot to fill up the water and now it’s too late. What if Vishnu comes home and there’s no water?” She started having a panic attack. Ruby hugged her friend and told her to take a few breaths to calm down.
“He’s not here yet, darling. We can fix this,” Ruby reassured her little sister. She knew full too well what triggered Lakshmi’s panic attack. Ruby checked the bathroom. “You still have a full bucket and another half there from yesterday. He won’t know the difference. That should be enough for him to freshen up. Here, get yourself ready, I’ll be back.”
Lakshmi regained her composure and hurriedly got ready. There wasn’t enough time for her to wash up, so she just brushed her teeth, cleaned her face, and changed into a fresh salwar kameez outfit. She didn’t feel great today and looked disheveled. She wanted to look her best and today just wasn’t one of those days she could get herself together. “What will Chef Vijaya think when he sees me?” was her first thought. She caught herself, embarrassed. “I’m a married woman now and can’t have unsavory thoughts like these. But what’s the harm? Vishnu doesn’t pay much attention to me anyways and when he does, he just uses me.”
Ruby had returned with supplies. She filled up another bucket in Lakshmi’s kitchen with some of her own water and she had also brought down some aloo gobi that she had made. “We help each other here, little sister,” Ruby said. Lakshmi was so grateful and
relieved. She would make it up to Ruby when Ruby needed her help.
They were about to leave for their shift, when a tired Vishnu and Dravid returned. “You haven’t left yet?” he bellowed tiredly but still angrily at Lakshmi, “Don’t piss off Mr. Iyer now. Go, go, fast you stupid woman.” Dravid backed away and quietly left to his apartment like a scared mouse. Ruby stood as a barrier between Lakshmi and Vishnu and pulled her out of the apartment safely to get to work.
Alcohol and sleep deprivation were two things that transformed Vishnu into a fiery, unreasonable devil. And he indulged in both. Alcohol by choice and sleep deprivation as a result of the job. Due to the erratic work schedule, the more sleep deprived Vishnu became, the more he drank. It was an endless cycle that was an overall bad formula for anyone in his life, including Vishnu himself.
Thankfully, the girls were able to escape the exhausted and irrational ogre by heading out to their shift. Lakshmi could not have imagined that working at the seedy hotel that the Kochi Queen Hotel was, would be more joyful and a safe refuge over being at home with her own husband.
~
Once Ruby and Lakshmi arrived at work, Maria Ma’am asked Lakshmi to come to her office once she was dressed and ready for the shift. Today didn’t get off to a good start already and she was terrified what this “special” meeting was all about. She thought, “Did Maria Ma’am see that I look like a mess today? Did I do something wrong?” Ruby could see the frustration on Lakshmi’s face but held back on saying anything as she knew that Lakshmi’s fate was about to change.
Lakshmi, with her eyes down, knocked on Maria Ma’am’s office door, which opened into a small space that was once a broom closet.
“Humphf, who is it?” Maria Ma’am said as she looked up and saw a shy girl standing at the door. Her tone shifted to a gentler, inviting one. “Oh, Lakshmi, Lakshmi dear. Please come in, come in.” Maria Ma’am stood up and ushered Lakshmi to sit. Lakshmi felt uncomfortable with all the sudden softness that Maria Ma’am was showing her.
“Look, Lakshmi. We get very few girls here that meet a certain … criteria that the Iyer Group of Hotels needs to maintain its reputation with. We are very glad that Vishnu has been so blessed with such a beautiful wife. He has been a faithful servant of Mr. and Mrs. Iyer’s for many years now and that is why the Iyer family are fast tracking you to this prestigious position, even though you’ve only been here a short while,” Maria Ma’am continued.
Lakshmi was astounded to hear Vishnu being referred to as a faithful servant. She hadn’t quite gotten used to the “driver” label, and now this son of the highest class in their village was being called a servant. She realized that she was also merely a servant, but unlike Vishnu, she had always been one. Her status now was no better than when she was working at the cardamom estate in her small village. “The difference, though, is that I am now in Kochi and I can change my situation. I can be anyone if I work hard,” she thought as she remembered that today she may be a servant, but tomorrow she was going to be a lady of her own 3BHK on Marine Drive. “This opportunity is only the next step closer to my dream.”
Maria Ma’am went on, “You have been selected specially by Mrs. Iyer to be front of house and one of our select Kochi Queens. A Kochi Queen serves as a kind of … hostess in the restaurant /
bar for special VIP events. These events happen once or twice a month for our very best and select clientele. The shift starts at 7pm to 2am. The next one is coming up this Saturday evening.” Maria Ma’am was always so blunt and matter of fact in her delivery.
Lakshmi did not understand. She was a married woman. She couldn’t possibly work at night like certain workers did. “If the folks back home found out, how much shame this would bring to my family. Women that work at night are not well-respected women,” she thought as she imagines her mother and grandmother’s disappointed faces.
Maria Ma’am interrupted these thoughts and said, “We have already discussed the matters with Vishnu and he is very proud of you. He has accepted the position for you. You will be paid at double the rate each hour of what you are getting here and you can keep any tips. Congratulations, Lakshmi. This is one of the highest honors. Better be careful, though, the rest of the girls are going to hate you. Some never get the opportunity. See Ruby your friend. Only if she was fairer and younger, maybe she’d have a fighting chance.” The matronly woman winked at Lakshmi.
Lakshmi smiled at Maria Ma’am because that would be the correct response in this situation. She was confused how Vishnu had already accepted the position on her behalf and why he would be so agreeable to such an arrangement. She walked out of Maria Ma’am’s office and could feel the stares of the other girls.
“I’ve been here five fucking years and this bitch is promoted like that,” said one of the girls as she snapped her fingers.
“She’s Vishnu’s wife. That scumbag,” another said looking Lakshmi up and down scornfully as Lakshmi passed them.
“Poor hag, Ruby. Only if she was fairer, she would’ve been selected for the VIPs. Poor thing thought sleeping around with that asshole, Dravid, would get her there, but only got her cleaning up the VIP’s shit,” another jealous girl sneered. “At least some promotion.”
Lakshmi felt so small all of a sudden in a room full of girls that she hadn’t known long and had not been acknowledged by. Until then, they existed peacefully not seeing Lakshmi as a threat of any kind, but just another housekeeper. That morning, however, she could feel the hateful energy around them. She was frantically looking for Ruby, her only friend there. She was about to start looking when she was caught off guard by the other girls’ voices that had quickly changed their tune. “Good morning, ma’am. Good morning, ma’am.”. All those spiteful girls had now transformed into obedient, sweet-talking swans.
“Good morning, Mrs. Iyer ma’am,” Lakshmi could hear Maria Ma’am say and then point in Lakshmi’s direction. “Lakshmi, Lakshmi, come here. Come fast.”
Lakhsmi hurried over and noticed a small, round woman with a cheerful smile and her hair done up in a tight bun with a large tropical flower pinned to the side of the bun. She was wearing what looked like a very expensive silk army green sari with gold embroidery and her face was made up as if she was going to walk the red carpet for the screening of a Tollywood blockbuster. She exuberated confidence and demanded attention without having said anything yet. Lakshmi remembered her from the wedding.
“This is Lakshmi. The latest Kochi Queen,” Maria Ma’am said, pointing to Lakhsmi. “Lakshmi, this is Mrs. Iyer. She is the co-owner of the Iyer Group of Hotels.” Lakshmi felt like she was in the presence of royalty and bowed deeply with respect and joined her palms together to greet her.
“Namaskaram, Mrs. Iyer ji,” Lakhsmi said in the most endearing way.
“Very elegant,” the woman said as she lifted Lakshmi’s chin towards her and then, rotated her head under the dim lighting to take a look at her youngest Kochi Queen acquisition. “Very beautiful. What should we name you?”
“Name me?” thought Lakhsmi to herself, “But I have a name!”
“Ganga,” Mrs. Iyer said as she looked at Lakshmi, “Pure as our holy river itself. You will be a hit at our VIP engagements.”
Lakshmi cleared her throat and softly asked a surprised woman, “Um, Mrs. Iyer ji?”
“Hush,” Maria Ma’am interrupted.
Mrs. Iyer looked in Maria Ma’am’s direction and her stare told Maria Ma’am to speak no further. “No, no, let the girl say what she has to say,” Mrs. Iyer said, intrigued by the quiet confidence displayed by the child.
“The name is beautiful. Thank you, Mrs. Iyer ma’am…ji. But…um may you call me Gangalee instead,” Lakshmi asked sweetly.
“Why Gangalee?” Mrs. Iyer responded, curious at the interruption and fascinated by this young village girl’s audacity to ask. In all these years, none of the girls had the courage to question her decisions without reprimand, but Lakshmi’s unique doe-like features set her aside from any girls that had come through. Lakshmi was so pure and untouched by the harshness of the city.
“In my village, Gangalee is a purple flower that covers our fields throughout the year and it happens to be my favorite blossom. You having named me Ganga, which in itself is such a gift, but it would be even more special if you would do me the honor and bless me with this name,” an angelic Lakshmi explained.
“Then Gangalee you will be. Maria, make sure this charming flower of ours is ready for her debut that evening. We have some politicians and a sheikh from Dubai coming,” Mrs. Iyer sternly said to Maria Ma’am but turned softly to look at Lakshmi.
Mrs. Iyer then continued, “Yes, yes. You will be a nice addition to our troupe of girls. Our guests will really love you, our village girl. They’ve been looking for something new. Something invigorating. The stock has been dry and banal for too long.” she paused, then sang out Lakshmi’s new name with a melody in her voice and pantomimed signage above an imaginary stage with her hands, “Gangalee, our newest Kochi Queen!”
After a long pause, Mrs. Iyer looked around and curtly dismissed everyone. “Chop, chop. I don’t pay you all to stand around like ducks. Back to your duties.” She reached out again to Lakshmi’s face, made Lakshmi twirl for her, and examined her closely like a new trinket. With a jolly smile on her face, Mrs. Iyer left the room.
~
“Where was Ruby?” Lakshmi thought as she tried to find her in the changing room, the staff bathroom, the tiny break room with a rickety electric kettle and some dirt-cheap tea bags, and she even thought to peek in the kitchen when she couldn’t find Ruby anywhere else. She caught a glimpse of Chef Vijaya when she did and her heart fluttered for a few seconds. He hadn’t noticed her as his back was turned away from her, busily prepping for the lunch service.
She thought to herself, “Why did I even come here?” She felt a bit flushed at the thought that something about Chef Vijaya made her feel special and that she yearned for his attention. “Snap out of it, Lakshmi. You need to find Ruby. What am I doing here?”
Lakshmi questioned herself again. She then slapped her palm against her forehead, “Ouf. Silly me. Of course. She must be upstairs. Our shift is upstairs.”
~
She took the tiny elevator up to the VIP floor. Once there, Lakshmi found Ruby outside Room 202 with the housekeeping cart. Immediately, Lakshmi started spewing out everything that had just happened and how uneasy the whole thing was making her feel. Lakshmi was so confused that Vishnu had already approved her to be a Kochi Queen, but yet she had no idea what it would mean to be the next Kochi Queen. And she continued on to tell Ruby how odd it was for Mrs. Iyer to name her “Gangalee” and to touch her like she was some sort of shiny new object. Then, Lakshmi burst into tears and was shaking.
“Shhhhh, shhh, shhh,” Ruby said as she tried to calm Lakshmi down. “Shhhhhhhhhhhhh.” Ruby embraced Lakshmi in a big hug to give her a sense of security. Ruby then whispered in her ears, “Not here, sweet Lakshmi. Calm yourself now. We can talk in one of the empty rooms, but not here. I just finished up Room 202 and we do not want to wake up Mr. Gopalaswami as he is resting. He’s one of the good tippers.” Ruby flashed a 200 rupee note and winked at Lakshmi hoping that could cheer her up.
Lakshmi was still very much on edge but she took a few deep breaths, grounded herself, and quietened down. She had never been so exacerbated in her life. In her small village, she had never been this level complexity or deep feeling of unease. Lakshmi continued helping Ruby with cleaning the rooms, hoping for an empty one so that the two could spend some time discussing what had just happened to her.
Finally, after another hour and half, the girls got to Room 204, which was empty. Ruby checked the hallways to ensure no one had come up, then pulled Lakshmi to the bathroom. In a hushed voice, Lakshmi explained what Mrs. Iyer said and how she would be Gangalee, the next Kochi Queen.
“That’s a good thing. Think of it as a promotion,” Ruby explained, feeling a bit of envy. “I’ve worked here all these years and Mrs. Iyer has been very generous, but would never allow someone like me to be in front of her special guests. Don’t worry. You will just be a hostess for the evening. You will not like the girls that come to the rooms to stay overnight. Mrs. Iyer will provide you with costumes and you’ll wine and dine as the Kochi Queen elite with VIP guests. Lakshmi, this is such a wonderful opportunity to network with wealthy patrons.” Ruby did her best to downplay the seedier part of the offer. Mrs. Iyer was very protective of the girls, but it was a fine line between providing company and being an object of the VIPs’ desires. It seemed Vishnu had singled out Laskhmi in the village for her beauty and for his own gains, rather than for marriage.
Mrs. Iyer was known to pay a good upfront fee for what she wanted and now, everything was falling into place in Ruby’s mind. Vishnu had agreed to marry Lakshmi so that Vishnu could profit off of her. He couldn’t do so with a girl from his own class for this reason and because he wasn’t the hot shot businessman everyone at home thought he was back home. It was common knowledge that the Kochi Queens were paid the most at the establishment and were taken very good care of by Mrs. Iyer until they were no longer needed. Vishnu was no fool. That despicable, angry, jealous drunk.
“But I will be entertaining other men who are not Vishnu?” Lakshmi questioned. “How can Vishnu agree to this? Why did he
not ask me if I was okay with this? So much shame for me and my family.” Lakshmi started to have another panic attack.
“Oh, Lakshmi dear – breath into this,” Ruby said handing a brown paper bag to Lakshmi. “Mrs. Iyer is very protective of her Queens. You are only there to entertain with song, dance and good conversation.” Ruby tried to minimize the situation into manageable bites. “And you will get some hefty tips. Remember to keep a cut for yourself and don’t give everything to that Vishnu. You’ll need it one day.”
“Ruby, sister, help me. Can you not be a Kochi Queen with me?” Lakshmi pleaded between heavy breaths.
Although Ruby was charming and beautiful, she knew her dark skin and plainer features were a barrier. She was older now too. That was enough to make her an unattractive option for Mrs. Iyer, the sole member of the selection committee, who had such a deep rooted and singular definition of beauty. Plenty of men fawned over her and if given the opportunity that had been simply handed to Lakshmi in her first week there, she could have made enough money to focus on her acting career.
“You don’t know how lucky you are, Lakshmi. You wouldn’t believe it, but Mrs. Iyer herself was once a Kochi Queen and look where she is today. She is married to the head of the Iyer Group. There is a price to pay for success,” she told her and with a wink added, “Plus, you’ll get to see Chef Vijaya during his night shift. I’ll put in a word with him to keep an eye on you.”
Lakshmi couldn’t help herself and let out an adorable giggle. During the day, Lakhsmi and Ruby seemed to only get a few moments of Chef Vijaya’s time as he would go on his break before his night shift. Lakshmi was infatuated with him, not knowing much about him. However, in the very short interactions with him, she felt seen by him. She couldn’t wait
to spend those few extra moments once or twice a month in his close proximity. In addition to improving her circumstances, the added bonus of seeing Chef Vijaya made this raw deal more palpable.
~
After their shift, Ruby and Lakshmi walked home, stopping at the market to get some groceries and to treat themselves. Ruby told Lakshmi her rule of life, “With these extra tips, I keep at least 50% of it in my savings kitty for a rainy day, but the rest I spend on rent, food and freely on whatever I want. We work too hard not to enjoy the simple pleasures in life, but we need to plan for a rainy day,” she said as she purchased two small chocolate bonbon ice creams from a street vendor and handed one to Lakshmi.
As Lakshmi bit into the ice cream, her eyes widened and she smiled. “Eeek, it is so cold,” she shrieked, “But wow, so delicious. What is this?”
“Vanilla ice cream covered in dark chocolate,” Ruby said. “Something sweet to celebrate your big break today. May you have many more successes in the big city, little sister!”
That was such a thoughtful gesture. Ruby showed her so much kindness and Lakshmi was grateful for having her in her life. “Thank you, Goddess Lakshmi for bringing me such a beautiful friend,” she prayed quietly. Lakshmi was so grateful for all the new experiences. Despite the hardships and unforeseen challenges to come, she was finding life in Kochi enjoyable. The part of life that didn’t involve Vishnu and his rage.
The two young women continued through the market, doing mostly window shopping and ogling at latest clothing and jewelry trends. They didn’t feel comfortable going into the stores
because the shopkeepers could tell by looking at them that they weren’t there to seriously purchase a new outfit or jewelry set. After some time of window shopping, they stopped over at Basu Bhai’s to purchase groceries and then headed back home.
~
Vishnu and Dravid were in Vishnu and Lakshmi’s apartment with the television blaring loudly and a couple of Kingfishers in. When the girls walked in, Dravid greeted them grabbing the bags of groceries that Ruby and Lakshmi were holding. Ruby looked at Vishnu who sat grumpily watching the television and ignoring their presence like a rotten spoiled child. She looked at Lakshmi, smiled, and said, “We are going to head down the hall. Would you like to join us for dinner tonight?”
Lakshmi’s heart sank seeing Vishnu and she had no idea how to respond. Ruby noticed and she gave Dravid a look. Dravid understood and walked over to Vishnu and nudged him. He then said, “Vishnu, brother. Come for dinner? Ruby will make one of your favorite Punjabi dishes.” Vishnu grunted a yes. Dravid looked over to Ruby, who then said, “Perfect. Come in half an hour. We have some celebrating to do.” With that, Ruby and Dravid left to go down the hall to their apartment, leaving Lakshmi and Vishnu alone.
Lakshmi dreaded every moment she was stuck alone with Vishnu in that apartment. She quietly started putting away the groceries they had picked up. In a small steel cup, she took some of the daily water ration and fed her Gangalee seedlings soaking up the sun on the windowsill. She smiled and thought to herself, “I just planted these and in a week’s time, I should start seeing her little sprouts. And today, I became Gangalee. We will grow together my sweet blossoms.” Her thoughts were interrupted
when Vishnu grabbed her, pulled her to the sofa and flung her down atop of it.
“So today, I hear you met with Mrs. Iyer,” he said sternly looking at Lakshmi. “I didn’t think she would take you on board so quickly, but aren’t you a charming little bitch?” He paused for a few seconds in which Lakshmi shrunk afraid that he’d hurt her, but he continued on, “You will do exactly what Mrs. Iyer tells you to. Don’t you dare fuck with my reputation, cunt. She will pay me 2,000 rupees for each night you dance for her. That’s a good deal, you hear? That money and any tips you give to me.”
Lakshmi nodded, not daring to look into his fiery eyes. “You are still my wife,” he reminded her, “Don’t you cross any lines with those VIPs, getting smart and wanting to fly high. I have eyes and ears everywhere.” He then grabbed her arm, lifted her and took her into the bedroom. “Still my wife,” he echoed as he unzipped his pants, pulled her salwar down, and insert his snake into her. “My wife,” he said as he held her down by the neck and continued to roughly thrust himself into her not caring for her needs.
Lakshmi lay there still as a mouse with tears silently rolling down her cheeks, careful not to utter anything as he painfully held her down and continued within her. Once he came, he let out a big sigh of relief. He sat on her for a short thirty seconds which to Lakshmi, felt like ages and she lay still, almost lifeless. Then, he got up and said nonchalantly, “Get up and clean yourself up, lazy whore. We have dinner down the hall with our gracious hosts.” In the dank room gathering strength to face the rest of the evening, she slowly rose. Unlike the Mills & Boon stories that Kanika madam would read passages from, she felt disgusting and defeated after being with the brute. “Goddess Lakshmi, give me strength to go on,” she prayed silently to herself.
She went to the bathroom, passing by Vishnu who had resumed watching television as if nothing had transpired between them. Once in the bathroom, she cleaned herself with as little water as she could spare. Then, she looked in the mirror. “Today wasn’t the best of days and started off rocky,” she thought, as she arranged her hair to make herself more presentable. She exited the bathroom and signaled to Vishnu that she was ready to head down the hall. They joined Ruby and Dravid for spicy rajma, a red kidney bean curry, with basmati rice. Ruby noticed the change that had come over Lakshmi, but she didn’t say anything. “Lakshmi will have to grow to balance her needs with the evil of men to survive, but I fear Vishnu is one of those men that may never mellow out,” Ruby thought to herself, a lesson she had learned the hard way.
~
The day of Lakshmi’s Kochi Queen debut had arrived. For the past several nights leading up to the day, Lakshmi could hardly sleep. She woke up feeling nervous, excited, and also terrified of Vishnu’s reaction to her being a Kochi Queen. The past few days had been relatively peaceful in the sense that Vishnu and her had hardly interacted because their schedules clashed. Without fear, she could wake up in the mornings and spend time sprucing up the apartment, preparing dinner and then spending a few moments sketching the landscapes of her small village in the outskirts of Idukki hills.. She found herself sketching a picture of Ruby amongst the field of Gangalee blossoms she used to frequent from her walks to and from the well in her small village on the outskirts of Idukki hills. She was almost done and was excited to gift her friend with one of her best sketches.
Today seemed to be especially auspicious because as she stood praying to Goddess Lakshmi to protect her and to help her to
succeed in all her endeavors, she noticed small sprouts peak out of the soil of the trough with her recently planted Gangalee seeds. As she was embarking on a new venture as “Gangalee”, the latest of the Kochi Queens, so too were her Gangalee seed. They had sprouted earlier than expected too. This made Lakshmi very happy and excited for the day ahead.
Ruby was going to come by shortly and they would commute using the bus to their shift together. As she understood it, today she would attend training as opposed to help Ruby with the housekeeping services in the VIP suites. In anticipation of Ruby, Lakshmi had made some sweet payasam along with their usual cardamom tea for breakfast. “Something sweet for something new,” Lakshmi thought as she remembered her grandmother saying this before the start of a new school year. Well, up until Lakshmi was stopped from going to school. Then, her grandmother would say it when Lakhsmi would get a new sketchbook or read a whole collection of books that her grandmother had secretly sneaked her way. It was a small delight to celebrate these small wins in this big, new city.
Lakshmi heard the knock at the door and she let Ruby in. “Ready?” Ruby questioned her with a big, encouraging smile. Ruby always had a way, no matter what, to make the start of the day so joyful and Lakshmi was very grateful for having this friendship. Without Ruby, Lakshmi would have otherwise been lost in this big city. “Let’s hurry, hunh. Dravid texted; the boys are on their way back home. They camped out in Vishnu’s car last night waiting for a VIP who never showed up from the venue till the early hours.”
Lakshmi nodded, acknowledging that they should leave sooner rather than later so not to cross paths with Vishnu. Still, Lakshmi wished that Vishnu would let her know too, but they never communicated. He only ever spoke to her when he wanted
to satisfy himself, get fed, or need something else. There was nothing else between them and she did foresee a relationship beyond this.
She quickly cooled down the tea by pouring it back and forth between cups and handed one to Ruby and herself. She was about to dish out the payasam when Ruby winked at her. Ruby took a large spoonful right from the pot and fed it first to Lakshmi and wished, “Good luck, our little Kochi Queen. I am so proud of you.” Then she took another spoonful and ate it directly from the pot. She smirked, “I’m watching my figure in case Mrs. Iyer chooses me next. Don’t want her to give her another excuse to pass me over for the next spot that opens up.” Both girls laughed and then, they quickly downed their tea and headed out to door before either Vishnu or Dravid returned.
~
Having been excused from her regular duties for the day, Mrs. Iyer instructed Maria Ma’am to have the Kochi Queen girls come through to the entertainment space of the restaurant. Lakshmi had only peeked into the entertainment space before and had never really saw it in its full glory. Now there, she saw the restaurant tables, the door to the kitchen and on the far end, a decent sized stage. In addition to Lakshmi, there were four other girls and a beautiful, slender woman dressed in Bharatanatyam attire.
“Girls, today we have a new addition to our troupe of Kochi Queens. Please meet my Gangalee,” Mrs. Iyer said proudly. “Gangalee, as the girls know, we have very strict rules for our girls. You are here to entertain our gentlemen patrons and their guests. My select Kochi Queens are not here to provide services like the girls you see upstairs, but to provide their beauty, charisma and enchanting conversation. We also have
Guru ji, Mrs. Pillai here, who teaches and choreographs the basic principles of our traditional dance that our guests come for. Now, girls, please follow Guru ji for your lessons.”
Mrs. Iyer pulled Lakshmi aside and said, “You come with me a moment. We will do your dress fitting and I have a few additional things I need to speak to you about.”
Lakshmi followed Mrs. Iyer down some stairs leading to a room under the stage. As she went below, she looked back at the room where the remaining girls were fully focused on perfecting a dance sequence. All the girls looked like elegant swans as they moved in unison to Guru ji’s instruction. Lakshmi’s prior feelings of fear and unease dissipated in that moment. She couldn’t wait to join the Kochi Queens now and was super excited by the prospect of doing so.
~
In the small room under the stage, a shortish balding man with a wiry frame, holding a tape measure in his long, bony fingers stood waiting.
“Ah Mrs. Iyer. Finally,” Tailor Sahib said upon seeing Mrs. Iyer. “And this must be the girl you mentioned. Mmmmm, what proportions. Mahshallah Mahshallah. What a beauty!”
“Yes. I thought you’d approve. This is indeed Gangalee, our newest Kochi Queen,” Mrs. Iyer said proudly as she sat down and pointed Lakshmi in Tailor Sahib’s direction. Lakshmi approached the odd-looking man and felt uncomfortable in his presence. The Muslim man in his late fifties started taking her measurements and writing them down in a scruffy notepad he had stuffed in his left white cotton shirt pocket.
Mrs. Iyer continued, “We have some ground rules, Gangalee. You are here to entertain our guests and delight them with
charming conversation. I have no doubt you will be able to do this. But, like I said, don’t get too smart and cross any lines here. Don’t’ think for a moment that you can sleep your way to the top with any of these men. You are not that sort of girl here. The Kochi Queens are a unique, exclusive offering to our establishment. Our guests know these rules and in fact, expect a certain level of this kind of discretion. They are well-traveled businessmen, heirs, politicians. I always have a very close eye on each of you, so you’ll never feel unsafe. If you do ever feel uncomfortable, you come to me or Maria Ma’am. But listen well, if I catch you breaking the rules, you’re out. I’ve seen many girls over the years try and each of them has fallen flat on their faces. These are married men or men who are going to marry in their pedigree. They’re not looking for more than that. You are what they cannot receive at home and that in itself is the greatest reward.”
Lakshmi nodded. She was a married woman so didn’t understand the lecture. She had no intention of falling out of grace with Mrs. Iyer anyways. It was already Goddess Lakshmi’s blessing that she had landed such a coveted place amongst the Kochi Queens, an opportunity even Ruby who had been working here for years hadn’t been able to secure. Lakshmi was feeling very grateful in that moment and obediently nodded to Mrs. Iyer.
Tailor Sahib had moved up and was measuring her chest now and even with Mrs. Iyer there, she could feel a slight creepiness as he went over her breasts with his tape measure, taking what seemed longer than necessary and pressing purposefully to cop a feel. As he looked over the frames of his glasses trying to read the measuring tape, his tongue wagged as he tightened the tape measure a little more snuggly than needed atop of her breasts.
Mrs. Iyer continued, “I know you are recently married, but you are young. I have had a word with Vishnu and we have let him know it is best if you both wait to have children for a while. We are of course a family centric company, but our clientele requires our girls to maintain a certain look and pregnancy always ruins the beauty of our young blossoms like yourself. I mean, look at me now. I was once a slender and graceful just like you, but after having just one son and daughter, look how it has aged and fattened me.”
Lakshmi shook her head politely protesting this comment from Mrs. Iyer and acknowledging that she was still as remarkable a woman as she once was. Unphased, Mrs. Iyer pulled out a small pink pill box from her drawer. “Here. Your periods are on time, yes?” Mrs. Iyer questioned as she put the box on the desk. Lakshmi had never openly discussed such private and intimate matters with anyone, not even her mother or even her best friend, Rani. These were taboo topics. Thinking about her periods, however, Lakshmi knew that something had always been off with her body. She wouldn’t bleed in the perfect monthly intervals that the other women were known to, but she hadn’t thought too hard about it either.
Lakshmi didn’t say anything in reply to Mrs. Iyer. Mrs. Iyer’s question was rhetorical anyway and so, without skipping a beat she continued on, “One of these pills should be taken once a day. They will make sure that you don’t accidentally have a baby when you and Vishnu are intimate. Take them once a day, okay?” Lakshmi nodded as it seemed this time Mrs. Iyer was looking for acknowledgement. “Excellent. Start today. Same time daily. Okay, Tailor Sahib, you should be done soon. Send out Lakshmi so she can practice with the rest of the girls. Make sure her outfit for tonight is adjusted to make me pop.”
Before leaving the room, Mrs. Iyer walked up to Lakshmi and held her face up towards the little light bulb that lit up that small room and said before exiting, “What a beautiful blossom. You will shine tonight our Gangalee doll.”
Tailor Sahib was almost done with his measuring, but had slowed down a bit when Mrs. Iyer left the room. Lakshmi could hear his heavy breathing and under his breath he whispered in her ear, “You are indeed one of the most beautiful women I have ever dressed. It is a real pleasure to work on something as beautiful as you. Such beautiful bosoms. Perfectly curved waist.” He then knelt and took the tape to measure the inseams and she could feel his wily fingers touch more closely than necessary. He got very near to her to read the measurement and said, “Oh, Mrs. Iyer has chosen very well. Perfect dimensions. Dream girl, indeed. Mashallah. Mashallah. God Almighty has blessed us all.”
Lakshmi stood frozen, uncomfortable with his remarks and uneasy touch. He rose from his knees and then insisted on retaking her hip and chest measurements and lingered over them a tad longer than needed. “A tailor must double check. Must be certain. I’m the very best, you know? This is why.” he said and then stepped back, sweaty and with an obvious lump filling the crotch of his pants.
“Go now, our Gangalee. Go. I’ll have your debut dress ready tonight. You will dazzle and make every man in that room crazy and every girl in your troupe jealous.” Lakshmi left as quickly as she could, feeling disgusted and dirty from his perverted comments.
~
“One, two, three,” Guru ji instructed the girls and upon Lakshmi’s return said, “Continue your practice.” Guru ji
approached Lakshmi, “Gangalee, right? Good choice of name. Unique. I will be your dance teacher, choreographer, for these events. Do you have dance experience?”
Lakshmi looked doe-eyed at Guru ji. She had never danced in her life except when she was alone with the Gangalee blossoms back in the fields of her small village on the outskirts of Idukki. “No, Guru ji,” she meekly replied and then asked, “What is
choyografa
?”
Guru ji let out a laugh. It had been a long time since she had met anyone so innocent. “It means that I will teach you to dance in a very particular sequence. And today is a very special dance number. It is your debut. The girls here know their moves, which will center around you and your introduction to our VIP guests. There isn’t a whole lot for you to learn as I’ve kept it very simple for your first dance. You will come on to stage surrounded by these five, who will then introduce you in a very unique way that I’ve come up with,” Guru ji said excitedly. Guru ji then proceeded to work with Lakshmi and the other girls on the dance moves for the night’s performance. They went on for a few hours practicing the moves and sequence.
Lakshmi was laser focused and an obvious natural talent. She was so graceful and elegant in her moves and this didn’t go unnoticed by Guru ji. When Mrs. Iyer came around to check on the preparations for the evening’s performance, Guru ji whispered into Mrs. Iyer’s ear, “What a girl. She is a natural. Keep your eyes on her and keep her close. She could be a star one day.”
Lakshmi continued to practice the minute moves and subtle eye movements as the story choreographed by Guru ji was played out by the troupe of dancers. Lakshmi had shaken off the uncomfortable encounter with Tailor Sahib earlier on and wanted to do everything to succeed here. “Thank you, Goddess
Lakshmi, for this opportunity,” she thought to herself. “I feel like a Tollywood star. It feels so wonderful to dance.”
“Okay girls. Break time. Go have your lunch. Back here in half an hour for fittings and final practice,” Guru ji said as she dismissed the group of young girls.
Lakshmi didn’t really know where to go, so she just waited to see what the other girls would do. Some went to the bathroom to freshen up, but a couple went to sit at a table at the far end of the venue space.
Lakshmi went to sit by them. The girls didn’t seem particularly welcoming and engaged in a conversation amongst themselves. The other girls came back to the table and also turned their backs on Lakshmi, engaging in their own conversation about the prior night out or a boyfriend or something like that.
Shortly after all the girls had been seated, Chef Vijaya came out with the boy with thalis for each of the girls.
“Oh, hello, Lakshmi. I heard that there was going to be a new Kochi Queen today. I had no idea you would be our sweet Gangalee,” he said to her with an endearing smile. “But that doesn’t surprise me at all.”
The girls turned to look at Lakshmi who had turned pink in the cheeks, flushed by the attention of the dreamy Chef Vijaya. “It was quite a surprise to me as well,” she said unknowingly batting her eyes at him and completely focused on his lips as she spoke. “But I am very grateful to Mrs. Iyer for having given me this wonderful opportunity and so soon after my arrival here.”
He smiled again and winked at her directing special attention to just her. Then, he said to the whole group of girls who were fawning over him, “Well, eat up now because Guru ji is going to put you girls through quite the workout this afternoon. Okay, I better hurry back to the kitchen now.”
He then pointed to the boy and said, “Get that Unniyappam for Lakshmi.” After a pause, he then added, “and the rest of the girls. Our Gangalee should start her debut with something sweet.” Lakshmi couldn’t help but feel special as she was singled out in front of all these beautiful girls. Unlike Vishnu, he had actually acknowledged her big day as a Kochi Queen. Her heart melted with admiration for this man as she saw him leave with the boy in tow.
Once Chef Vijaya left, the other girls of the troupe prodded Lakshmi for information, “So how do you already know Chef Vijaya?” Lakshmi told the girls how he met Chef Vijaya through her friend, Ruby and how kind and welcoming he was.
“But he got you something sweet on your first day, already. What a charmer, huh?” a slender darker skinned girl with alluring blue eyes noted. In jealousy, she couldn’t help but add, “You seem to have worked your magic fast on everyone. And so fast.”
“Hush,” said another slightly older girl, who was fairer, more voluptuous but shorter and had less delicately featured than Lakshmi. “You’re just jealous, Kalika. Gangalee is a fair and lovely beauty. Some fresh catch from the village for the Kochi scene. Isn’t that right, girls?” The other girls all nodded with Sita and they all burst out in laughter.
The sarcasm and jealousy eluded Lakshmi. She didn’t know just yet how tight-knit Kalika and Sita were. Lakshmi thought she was making new friends, having never experienced such cut-throat competition before. Only a few days in the big city, she was still just a young naïve girl from a small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills. The Kochi Queens were a vicious and gossipy gang of girls that had stepped over anyone and anything to get where they were. They were not pleased to have this fresh-faced doll in their midst. It had taken many of them years to get their coveted positions doing all sorts of menial
jobs from cleaning the dirty rooms of the Iyer Group of Hotels or trading information on scandals to benefit the Iyer Group of Hotels.
Lakshmi was an innocent. All she was thinking of in that moment was the kindness Chef Vijaya bestowed upon her. “Other than Ruby, no one has congratulated me,” she thought, smitten by his kind gesture of the Unniyappam offering. She hadn’t had those in years. Her father’s sister used to make them before her aunt had passed. As she ate the delicious sweet, she reflected, “I’m not sure what I am to my own husband. I am still grateful for him bringing me out of my small village and giving me such a great opportunity, but when I’m with him I feel so out of place. So…” she paused before going on, “So used.”
After lunch, the girls went back to the recital for the big night. Guru ji was very focused on Lakshmi’s movements. It was a lot to teach the young girl in the span of a day, but Guru ji remarked to Mrs. Iyer when she’d come back to check on preparations again, “With a little bit more practice, she will certainly outshine the rest. And in no time, surpass them.” These remarks were overheard by the other girls, especially the overly jealous Sita and Kalika who had long been the leading ladies of the coveted dance group.
~
It was just a couple of hours before Lakshmi’s debut as “Gangalee.” Ruby had stayed a little longer after her shift so that she could wish Lakshmi good luck on her new adventure. She watched a bit of the dance practice and was amazed by the natural grace by which Lakshmi moved. She truly was a born superstar. Ruby also noticed the reactions of the other girls. She would have to warn Lakshmi about those girls and also have a word with Chef Vijaya to keep her informed of any behind-
the-scene scheming. She knew of Sita and Kalika’s reputations all too well and they would sink to the lowest of lows just to get what they wanted. Even though Ruby was slightly envious of Lakshmi’s good fortune, her compassion and good nature prevented her from being anything but the protective big sister.
“Lakshmi, Lakshmi, come here,” Ruby called Lakshmi over as Lakshmi finished her session and was about to grab a quick bite. “You looked amazing out there. A natural.”
“Thank you, sister. It has been amazing and the girls are so wonderful to me,” Lakshmi said. “But I can’t help but feel nervous about tonight. What if I mess up? I’ll be a laughing stock and Vishnu will punish me for failing.”
“Don’t be silly. You’ll do great, Lakshmi. You were born to perform!” Ruby encouraged her friend and then warned, “But be extra careful of the kindness from Sita, Kalika and the other girls. They’re not like you. Don’t eat or drink anything they give you before any of the events.” Ruby thought to add this, remembering an incident a few years ago when one of the dancers passed out and was found to have overdosed on GHB or some other drug that had been put into her drink before a show. The girl had just barely made it and Mrs. Iyer was so irate that she dismissed the girl for being so irresponsible, despite it not being her fault at all. “Please promise me to be careful, Lakshmi.”
Before she left for the day to head back to the apartment, Ruby went to the kitchen to see if Chef Vijaya had come down for the evening service.
“Oh, look who we have here,” Chef Vijaya exclaimed upon seeing Ruby. “What a delight to see you this evening, Ruby! You always make my day. Here, have an unniyappam in honor of Gangalee’s debut. Your little protégé is doing very well for
herself. Hopefully, she will repay you for your kindness some day because that girl will go far.”
Ruby wasn’t sure what he had meant by that, but in a big city like Kochi, it was highly unusual for anyone to do anything just out of the kindness of their heart. The expectation was that Ruby was only being kind to Lakshmi because she would benefit somehow down the road from it. Ruby shrugged the comment off, even though to some extent, perhaps, it was true.
As she munched on the unniyappam, Ruby waited for a moment to have a word with Chef Vijayawhow as busy between prep, cooking, and tasting. “Look, Lakshmi is like a sweet little lamb ready for slaughter,” Ruby said between bites. “Those girls are looking to annihilate her, sooner or later. As you know, we aren’t allowed to hover around when the Iyer’s prestigious guests are here, but I need you to watch out for her when I cannot. Sita and Kalika are bitches, but they have a soft spot for you. Keep an eye on them. I told Lakshmi not to eat or drink anything that the other girls hand her. Hopefully she heeds my advice.”
Chef Vijaya understood Ruby and remembered the incident of some years ago. He held Ruby’s hands and looked her in her eyes. “I promise, Ruby. She is a bit innocent, isn’t she?” he said. He still had a way of making Ruby swoon with his gentle touch, but she knew too well what a player he was. She wished she could explain this to Lakshmi as well, but given the circumstances, Chef Vijaya was the lesser of all evils present in Lakshmi’s life right now.
Ruby smiled and winked. She said, “Thank you, Chef Vijaya. I can always count on you. And your deep, sweet, fried balls, plump and delicious in my mouth, as always.” They both laughed at the naughty innuendo and carried on with their evening. Ruby left satisfied that she had done all she could to warn and protect the new Kochi Queen.
~
Lakshmi was so overwhelmed with joy, excitement, and nerves. It wasn’t entirely clear whether she had accounted for the seriousness of Ruby’s warnings. As she waited, Tailor Sahib had returned with the outfits for the evening, along with Mrs. Iyer and Guru ji.
“For our Gangalee, something a little special,” he said leering at Lakshmi, “Look Mrs. Iyer. I’ve been saving this peacock feather headdress for a special girl like our Gangalee here. Look at this rich royal blue and purple dress that shimmers with its hundreds of sewn-in diamond gems. When the girl moves, she will dazzle.” He looked at Lakshmi with his eyes tracing her body and then, he uncomfortably hid the bulge rising in his pants with the headdress.
“What a creation, Tailor Sahib! Where have you been hiding this all these years?” Guru ji said as Mrs. Iyer and her marveled over the bespoke outfit.
“Excellent work, Tailor Sahib. Today really is going to be a special celebration,” Mrs. Iyer delighted.
Kalika interrupted sharply, “Wouldn’t this dress look much more darling on me? I have these beautiful blue eyes that your guests love, Mrs. Iyer ma’am.”
“Hush, Kalika. Tonight isn’t your night. You’ve been seen and done,” Mrs. Iyer reprimanded Kalika’s insolence. Mrs. Iyer walked over to her latest addition, Gangalee, Lakshmi sat in front of a mirror having her make-up done by a young, flamboyant make-up artist who in that moment was applying lip color to Lakshmi’s delicate lips. The make-up artist moved aside as Mrs. Iyer approached. Mrs. Iyer stood behind Lakshmi, crouched down to eye-level and held Lakshmi’s shoulders as they both admired Lakshmi’s reflection in the mirror. Mrs. Iyer
smiled and continued on, “Tonight our beautiful new blossom will make her debut. Unplucked. Fresh. Gangalee, our newest Kochi Queen!”
Kalika scowled at Mrs. Iyer’s compliment and looked at Sita. Their mischievous minds met and they hatched a plan to show this debutant who the leading ladies were and would always be at the Kochi Queen Hotel. Kalika and Sita went to a dark corridor out of sight from the others, where they decided that they would mix a clear laxative into Lakshmi’s drink a little before the performance. The two women laughed at the thought of the consequences, knowing that they would get away with this one. Drugs would be too obvious and they didn’t know if the small framed girl from the village could handle it or if she would end up in the hospital like the last one. If Lakshmi got the runs, however, nerves could explain that.
Little did Kalika and Sita know but the boy from the kitchen had overhead them. No one ever noticed the boy because he was inconsequential and invisible, but in the short time she was there, Lakshmi ma’am always smiled and said hello to him whenever she saw him. She never overlooked him. He wasn’t invisible to her and so he hurried into the kitchen and told Chef Vijaya what he had just overheard.
“Those girls will never stop,” Chef Vijaya said shaking his head. He thought for a moment, then scribbled the warning on a note. “Here, take this and hand it to Lakshmi when no one is looking.” The boy was rushing out, but Chef Vijaya held him back. “Wait.” He rummaged through the pantry and pulled out some tins of rasgullas. He took out the plump cottage cheese balls and dunked a ball into a number of bowls, along with a bit of sweet syrup. Putting them on a tray, he signaled to the boy, “Take these in. Say Chef Vijaya wanted to send in something sweet before the performance. Then quietly hand Lakshmi the note. It tells her
not to take any food or drink that has been unattended or given by one of the other girls. Hope she gets it in time and heeds its warning. Now go.”
The boy went diligently into the room. “What are you doing here, wicked boy,” Mrs. Iyer said. “This is the Kochi Queens’ changing room. No men,” she paused and looked up at him, “Well, no boys allowed either.”
The boy averted his eyes and looked at the floor. He cleared his throat and replied, “Mrs. Iyer ma’am, Chef Vijaya sent me. Some sweets for the girls.” He pushed through his shyness, handed Mrs. Iyer a bowl and started handing out the sweet dessert quickly moving towards Lakshmi and keeping his eyes averted as a sign of respect as he did. As he gave Lakshmi the dessert, he surreptitiously handed her the note and purposefully looked at her signaling that she should read it.
The make-up artist, dressed in skin-tight jeans and a shimmering collared silver shirt, walked up to the boy and he tapped the boy’s shoulder. He then said flirtatiously to the boy, “Sweet balls for Monty, too?” The boy handed Monty a bowl off of the tray, feeling awkward in Monty’s presence with Monty’s beady eyes following him like he was prey. Lakshmi was happily munching on the rasgulla thinking how thoughtful and kind Chef Vijaya was. She then unraveled the note from him, secretly expecting a good luck note but was shocked when she read his warning.
“What’s that, Gangalee?” a nosy and highly vigilant Monty said noticing the note as Lakshmi quickly hid it.
“Oh nothing,” Lakshmi replied. “Nothing.”
That wasn’t enough to shush Monty, but she pushed past him when Tailor Sahib had called her over to fit her into the gorgeous shimmering outfit. “You too, Monty brother,” Tailor Sahib said
hollering at Monty and showing him the headdress. “Once I have her in this outfit, I’ll need you to affix this to her head.”
“Fabulous! Fabulous!” Monty exclaimed, brimming with delight, and enthused with the headdress, he forgot the note altogether.
Monty chatted with Tailor Sahib admiring his creation that came to life when Lakshmi slipped into it. Monty then pinned in the headdress and sprayed on a lot of hair spray to keep the headdress in place. “Looks like this should hold it in place. Tailor Sahib, you are an absolute genius!” Monty complimented Tailor Sahib and then Monty started clapping fervently as he presented Lakshmi to the troupe. “Lakshmi, you look absolutely gorg, baby. You will be a sensation tonight,” he said and then inquired, “Where is Mrs. Iyer? Mrs. Iyer. Mrs. Iyer. Monty and Tailor Sahib need to show Mrs. Iyer our latest Kochi Queen.”
~
Monty had found Mrs. Iyer who had stepped out to take a business call. “Look. Look, Mrs. Iyer ma’am. Our masterpiece for this evening,” he giggled in the excitement as he directed Mrs. Iyer back into the changing room and directed her attention to a dolled up Lakshmi.
Mrs. Iyer stood there admiring Lakshmi with her mouth agape. Finally, Mrs. Iyer joyfully exclaimed, “Wow. What a beauty!” She then stood there, speechless for a moment as she took in Lakshmi’s allure. “Gangalee, you are truly a beauty. We have never had a girl like you.”
The thought was interrupted by Guru ji, who announced that showtime was fast approaching in half an hour. She came storming through the room with this announcement, but then abruptly stopped mid-step upon seeing Lakhsmi.
After a few moments, Guru ji remarked, “Mrs. Iyer. I have no words to describe the beauty that stands before us. The Gods have truly blessed the Kochi Queen Hotel and the Iyer Group today.” Guru ji bowed down and smiled at Lakshmi. Lakshmi blushed at the compliment. She had never received such praise and attention in her life, and tonight she felt very special indeed.
As everyone bustled around her getting back to last-minute preparations, Lakshmi took a moment to pray before her debut performance, “Goddess Lakshmi. Thank you for bringing me this far and to this fortune. I am forever grateful. Please protect me from the devil that lurks here tonight disguised as my peers.”
No one noticed Kalika and Sita approach Lakshmi, almost cornering her. Sita spoke first, “Have a drink with us, our newest flower? To celebrate your first time on the stage and to calm your nerves!” The girls were being overly nice as they handed Lakshmi a shot glass, unaware that Lakshmi had been tipped off.
“Is this alcohol?” Lakshmi questioned, feigning innocence, and shaking her hand no.
“Not at all. It’s just a shot of turmeric, lemon juice, coconut milk and ginger,” Kalika said eagerly, as her and Sita downed their shot glasses and wiped their lips.
“We always have it before our shows. For energy. We just wanted to have you share in our small ritual and to welcome you to the Kochi Queens. Why, won’t you drink with us?” Sita asked and continued teasingly, “Will you only have a sip of whatever Chef Vijaya is serving?” The girls giggled, pretending to tease Lakshmi and hiding their frustration.
Lakshmi looked at the girls and said, “Oh, did you say this has coconut milk?” The girls nodded and Lakshmi then said, “Coconut milk gives me tummy troubles, I just can’t today. I’m so nervous.” She then poured her drink half into Kalika’s and
half into Sita and then said, “I’m just a girl from a small village on the outskirts of Idukki hills and we don’t waste anything there. It would be such a shame. Now drink up, my new besties.”
Kalika and Sita awkwardly looked at each other and shook their heads, “No, we’re good for now. One shot is enough to get us through the night.”
“Well, if you’re not going to have those,” Tailor Sahib said as he creeped up into the trio’s intimate conversation. He then grabbed their shot glasses with Kalika and Sita not having a moment to stop him and downed both of them, then and there. He let out a big burp. “Aaaah,” he remarked. “Delicious in deed, and I do feel energized. Lakshmi, darling girl, what a beauty you are. My special Kochi Queen.” He then pinched around the fabric around Lakshmi’s waist, pretending to adjust the dress to ensure it was secure when really, he was just being the sleaze ball he always was. He then got really close to her face, adjusting the firmly secured headdress, just so that he could feel her breathe on his face. The other girls watched knowing how disgusting and slithery Tailor Sahib had always been, but at the same time, feeling jealous that Lakshmi was getting all the attention, even Tailor Sahib’s.
All of a sudden, Tailor Sahib’s expression changed. He let out a groan as he signaled to his stomach, then ran out towards the staff bathroom. Lakhsmi looked at the girls and shook her head.
“Really? Some friends.” Lakshmi said and, in her peacock-inspired attired proudly strutted away from the two envious clucks.
~
“Good evening, gentlemen. Thank you for coming to our very special ‘Dining with our Kochi Queens’ Select VIP event,” Mrs.
Iyer announced on the microphone as she stood in front of the stage looking out towards five tables filled with what Mr. and Mrs. Iyer deemed to be dignitaries. These were men that were of a slightly higher caliber than their regular guests and usual VIPs. Although some stayed the night in the VIP suites, many of them had much more substantial homes across the relatively affluent neighborhoods around Kochi.
Other dignitaries were of the foreign kind, hailing from other states in India or from the Middle East. On rare occasion, the Kochi Queen would receive guests from East Asia. At front center, Mr. Iyer sat with the most elite of guests: a small-time Dubai sheikh that Mr. Iyer had done business deals with over the years, a prominent judge of the commercial courts that Mr. Iyer several permits and licenses approved by, and a regional politician who Mr. Iyer knew from his childhood days. One seat was left at the table for Mrs. Iyer and the other for the newest member of the Kochi Queens.
“Today, we have a very special performance where we will introduce our latest, hand-picked just for you, Kochi Queen, Gangalee. Gangalee is a sweet blossom hailing from a small village under the hills of Idukki. She is known for her unparalleled beauty and natural grace and elegance. Today is her first performance in front of such an esteemed audience. She may be a bit shy, so let’s give her a round of applause to calm her nerves.” The guests applauded enthusiastically as Mrs. Iyer walked off the stage and sat down at the head table alongside her husband.
The lights in the space went dim and a spotlight controlled by Monty shone at the center stage as music blasted out of the speaker system. Four of the girls entered the stage concealing the debutant and then as Guru ji had instructed, revealed
Gangalee to the crowd just as a flower’s petals would open up to reveal its radiant core.
Lakshmi was surprised that all her nerves had melted away. Guru ji was standing at the stage entrance concealed and had told her to watch her in case Lakshmi forgot any of her moves. From the energy in the room, Lakhsmi felt a surge of confidence. She felt like she was born to perform. In the lime light, with the whistling and clapping from the crowds, she became even more fluid in her movements as she performed for the very first time, surprisingly outshining all the other girls on the stage who had had years of practice.
Mrs. Iyer was beyond ecstatic. She could hear all the whisperings and chatter from the crowd around her. Gangalee was a hit!
“What a stellar body!” she heard the Dubai sheikh say, “She moves so gracefully like no belly dancer I’ve ever seen.”
“Where have you been hiding her, Mrs. Iyer?” the judge said as he nudged Mrs. Iyer. “That perfect figure. Let me tell you. I am not disappointed. We will have our next bar association event here for sure.”
Mrs. Iyer was very pleased with the prospect of new business. She was very glad to have taken this risk despite Mr. Iyer initially doubting her decision. She was very pleased with herself. The Kochi Queen had been losing its appeal since nearby competition had moved into the area, but tonight’s performance was sure to send shockwaves through their small, boutique hotel industry.
The troupe completed their twenty-minute performance and the entire audience stood up and clapped for another five minutes.
“Brava, brava,” Mrs. Iyer head from the back of the room.
“Encore!” shouted another, followed by loud whistling.
Then the entire crowd started chanting, “Gangalee, Gangalee, Gangalee.” Lakshmi was so proud of herself and enjoyed all the attention directed her way. Mrs. Iyer quickly leapt to the stage and took Lakshmi’s hand and pulled her out of the dance formation so that she could stand front and center on the stage. Lakshmi was so thrilled for such acknowledgement.
Lakshmi bowed to the crowd and put her palms together to thank the guests for their high praise. A bouquet and another were then thrown at her feet, which she graciously picked up and continued her irresistible smile. She instinctively sent flying kisses out into the crowd as a gesture of thanks. As she stood, center stage, she also saw the kitchen door open and Chef Vijaya peek out to see what all the hullabaloo was about. He saw Lakhsmi standing there, gleaming like a sparkling angel.
“Pure perfection,” Chef Vijaya thought as the two locked eyes and smiled warmly at each other. This micro interaction didn’t go unnoticed by the seething Kalika and Sita. They maintained their exposure, but underneath, were raging in full jealousy. “Why does this bitch get all the attention? She’s not even that wonderful,” they both thought as they stood there on stage, forgotten and in the shadows.
Mrs. Iyer handed Lakshmi the microphone and asked her to say a few words. Lakhsmi blushed as she spoke into the mic. She was astonished when the words started flowing freely out of her mouth, “Gentlemen, thank you so much for your presence here tonight. I am so thankful for this opportunity. A special thank you to Mrs. Iyer, Guru ji, Tailor Sahib, Monty, and of course, Mr. Iyer for believing in me.”
The crowd went wild. “When she speaks, her words are pure as sugar cane. So sweet,” said the politician to Mr. Iyer and continued on, “She should join me in politics.” He let out a bellowing laugh. Mr. Iyer was very pleased by this comment and
knew tonight he would need to ask for forgiveness from Mrs. Iyer for ever doubting her decisions.
Lakshmi handed the microphone back to Mrs. Iyer who thanked the guests some more and then instructed the other girls and Guru ji to join the guests at the other tables. She then led Lakshmi to the head table where the top dignitaries were seated. Lakhsmi charmed them with her natural gift conversation. Mrs. Iyer noticed how entranced the men were and hung on to her every word. “Reminds me of a young me,” Mrs. Iyer thought as she watched Lakshmi in action.
The night went till late and finally the guests left, very pleased all around. Mrs. Iyer had also received several promises of future bookings specifically featuring the Kochi Queens. They had also left hefty tips for the dancers and many of the men had asked after Gangalee, specifically.
The politician, in particular, had taken a keen interest in Gangalee. He pleaded with Mrs. Iyer if he could meet with her backstage.
“Shri Narayana ji. My girls are very special, especially Gangalee, but you know my rules. I break the rules for one VIP, then others will start questioning my standards,” Mrs. Iyer insisted. Mrs. Iyer fiercely protected her performers and hospitality hosts. The Kochi Queens were hand-selected to escort the men and provide civil companionship. “We are happy to have our girls attend functions with you, of course chaperoned, and we adhere to strict rules on what they can and cannot do. We are happy to accommodate your needs with our separate selection if need be.”
These Kochi Queens provided a service that these men’s wives, fiancées, or girlfriends couldn’t provide when they traveled or had to attend formal events. These men were seeking women companions, not sex partners, to provide them light
entertainment and a good laugh outside their mundane routine lives and the Kochi Queens were one such group in the Kochi area that filled this void for an affordable fee.
~
The guests and Mr. Iyer had all left now and Mrs. Iyer called the girls, Monty, Tailor Sahib and Guru ji out to the main table.
“Congratulations my Kochi Queens. Tonight was a phenomenal success!” Mrs. Iyer congratulated everyone. “But most of all, Gangalee, my special flower, you were a hit! They loved you and as a result of your performance alone, we have been able to make several bookings for the next six months. You are our lucky charm.”
Lakshmi’s eyes widened with the praise and she smiled so much. She profusely thanked Mrs. Iyer for her compliments.
Mrs. Iyer interrupted her and announced, “We hit the jackpot today in tips all because of you, Gangalee. We have received more than 3 times the tips we have ever made in any evening since providing this service offering.” After taking her cut, Mrs. Iyer divided up the tips as usual between the girls, Monty, Tailor Sahib and Guruji, but then Mrs. Iyer handed Lakshmi an extra 20%.
“No better person to wear my headdress than this beauty. We have hit the lotter tonight, indeed,” Tailor Sahib exclaimed.
“She is just stunning with or without make-up. Charisma is you, baby doll,” said Monty with a flying kiss in Lakshmi’s direction.
“Graceful and elegant like a swan. Unbelievable performance,” Guru ji remarked in absolute awe of Lakshmi’s performance.
“Mrs. Iyer, ma’am. Monty ji. Tailor Sahib ji. Guru ji. I am so grateful for this. Oh, this is so much. Thank you. Thank you,”
Lakshmi said with tears of happiness rolling down her soft cheeks and her palms pressed against each other towards her elders in pure gratitude.
As she took the tip, Lakshmi reminded herself of Ruby’s sage advice, “I will keep half of this away for myself, like my big sister has said to.”
“No. Thank you, Gangalee,” said Mrs. Iyer. “Well done all of you. Off home to bed now. Get your rest and see you for your shifts tomorrow.” Mrs. Iyer waved the girls out.
As expected, Kalika and Sita were disgruntled despite the extra cash they had earned tonight. Somehow, in one evening, Lakshmi had won not only the hearts of everyone at the Kochi Queen, but also of all the dignitaries. Even though tonight was the biggest payout they had had in all the years they had performed as Kochi Queens, they were unhappy at Lakshmi’s success.
To top the evening, Tailor Sahib pulled the girls aside when everyone had disbanded to head home to deliver them a warning.
“I know what you did. You bitches. I could destroy you just like that,” he said as he snapped his fingers in their faces. Kalika and Sita honestly had forgotten all about what they had done since their intended victim had escaped their vicious plan. “But don’t worry. I won’t say anything to Mrs. Iyer. We’re even for now,” he said as he snatched their pay for the day from both girls, turned around and stormed out.
~
Kalika and Sita were not just Kochi Queens but had been roommates that lived together in a shoddy, tight, one room space with a make-shift stove and a shared bathroom facility in
a dingy building in a rough neighborhood about an hour outside the city. They were born in the same slum just outside Kochi and had known each other their entire lives. Life had hardened them and they were determined to leave poverty behind and have a better life for themselves.
They had slowly worked their way up the food chain to get out of their small, overcrowded rooms in the slums that they shared with a multigeneration of family members and distant relatives. They had minimal education but had encouraged each other to learn the basics of reading and writing. Initially, they had tried to aim high in their aspirations. They tried to secure positions as receptionists at offices or more reputable establishments, but because they lacked a piece of paper, the necessary etiquette and overall look, they had been rejected time and time again.
They were both determined to make a better life for themselves. It wasn’t by the most straightforward means that Kalika and Sita had found their way to the Kochi Queens. One evening, they had happened to bump into Karthik, the receptionist at the Kochi Queen hotel who also happened to be Sita’s second cousin on her mother’s side. They were trying to pick up men in a loud disco club hoping to find someone to pay for their dinner and drinks when they happened upon Karthik sitting on the lap of a middle-aged man who had his arms tightly around Karthik’s waist. Kalika and Sita traded their silence for not outing Karthik and disgracing his family in exchange for two housekeeper positions at the Kochi Queen. They later discovered that Karthik’s gentleman friend was Monty, the fabulous make-up artist who entertained many a male companion.
As they stood closely packed like sardines with random sweaty men pressed against their bodies on the bus home, holding tightly onto the straps above them, Kalika and Sita talked about
their utter dislike for this new girl and how Lakshmi had to be pushed out.
“We have to be careful and cannot be caught. We just barely got away the last time,” Kalika and Sita said as they conspired. They had been warned by Mrs. Iyer that they would be gone if they played any of their tricks again. They discussed a number of ideas on their way home and their scheming made the hour ride through the sweat, stick and exhaustion, go by quickly. At the end of it, Kalika and Sita decided that they needed to wait some time so that suspicion wouldn’t easily fall on them and they had better information. Tailor Sahib was hot on their tracks still and they needed their hit to be foolproof.
~
Lakshmi was overjoyed when she got home. She felt brazen and independent for the first time in her life. Today she also rode the bus back home all alone in a strange city, so late at night. She felt so independent, free and accomplished. “Goddess Lakshmi, I am so grateful for these opportunities that you have laid out in front of me,” Lakshmi prayed to herself. She finally got off at her bus stop and raced to the elevator, but with all that energy and excitement decided to run up the stairs to her apartment instead.
As she was climbing up the stairs, she realized, “Oh, sister Ruby will be asleep. I’ll have to wait till the morning when I see her to tell her all about my night.” Then, it dawned on her. Vishnu could be home and she was struck by terror. She didn’t want to see him tonight and as she came up to the sixth floor, she was praying hard that he would be out on a job tonight.
Lakshmi quietly turned the key, opened the door and crept in, quiet as a mouse. The apartment appeared empty with the
bedroom door closed behind with the lights off. She breathed a sigh of relief. She put her handbag down and counted the cut she had received today. She took half of it and hid it at the bottom of one of her suitcases that had found a home in the corner of the living room. She turned on the kitchen light and put the remainder of her earnings on the kitchen table. She looked and smiled at her Gangalee flowers but then she felt a cold, slimy hand on her shoulder. It was Vishnu. Her heart sank.
“Hello Kochi Queen. Your highness is home now,” he said as he snatched up the cash and started counting each note slowly as he stood in the kitchen shirtless and only in his lungi. He then looked at her point blank and inquired, “Is this everything?”
Lakshmi gulped. She had set aside a bit like Ruby had said. She was going to take a gamble. The worst he could do was hit her if he found out she was lying. “Yes,” she said meekly before pausing to clear her throat and then left it at that.
“Good. This is very good,” he said as his eyes twinkled at the money. He then continued sneeringly, “How was the evening, Kochi Queen? Or should I call you Gangalee now?”
Lakshmi was initially surprised by his interest and she started telling him about the event, the headdress, and the compliments from the guests. And as she did, Vishnu’s demeanor quickly changed as jealousy and anger set in. He looked at her intently before saying, “Don’t get all high and mighty you little bitch. A Kochi Queen is just one step higher than a whore. Don’t you cross that line thinking you will become a real queen just because you had one good night.” Before Lakshmi knew it, Vishnu’s hands were wrapped around her neck and he squeezed just gentle enough that she could feel her breathing constrained. With her eyes, she pleaded with him as she tried to get free from his grasp.
“I can’t hurt your pretty face, your highness,” he said reminding himself of the deal he had made with Mrs. Iyer. He released his hands from her neck and then lifted her kameez and lowered her salwar. “You are a pretty little thing. Bet lots of men would like to do to you what I can do whenever I want to. Here, let me show you, MY wife.”
With her back now to him, his hands crept below her bra as the fingers of his other hand entered her below. She stood there stiffly as he murmured, “Aaaah, the Kochi Queen is so pure. The men would love a piece of this.” He then unraveled his lungi and for the first time, gently entered into her from behind. His softness surprised her as he had her now against himself and the kitchen counter. After a few thrusts, he slipped out, turned her around and started kissing her gently her lips. Lakshmi felt that this night encounter was somehow different than the others she had previously experienced with Vishnu. He seemed kinder and she felt more present during their intimacy. His touch was more loving and less brutal and she was embarrassed that she was actually enjoying the intimacy. She started kissing him back, which only aroused Vishnu more. “My Kochi Queen,” he whispered softly in her ear and then said, “Your humble servant is here to fulfil his husbandly duty.” They moved on from the kitchen to the bedroom, romantically pleasuring each other, and she ended the night in his arms, slowly drifting away to sleep.
~
At five in the morning, Lakhsmi woke up feeling confident and happy for the first time in her new home. Last night with Vishnu had been incredible and different. As a result, she felt assured that everything was going to change from that day forward. Cheerfully, she filled the buckets with water, prepared breakfast
and dinner, got ready for work, put the tea on and then finally went to wake Vishnu up.
“Come here my dancing queen,” he said as he reached out to embrace and kiss her. “Bring my tea here in bed.” Lakshmi dutifully said she’d bring it right in.
At that moment, Ruby came knocking at the door. Lakshmi opened the door with a big smile.
“Lakshmi, Lakshmi. How was it last night?” asked Ruby. Seeing that Vishnu was there and still in bed, she apologized for barging in. “Sorry, I thought you wouldn’t be home since Dravid had to work overnight again so I assumed you did too.” Looking towards Lakshmi, she continued, “I was just so excited to hear how our Kochi Queen did.” And she gave Lakshmi a proud smile of a big sister having seen her younger sister succeed.
Lakshmi pulled Ruby into the kitchen and poured Ruby some of her special cardamom tea and another that she took to Vishnu and placed on the bedside table. He grabbed her wrist tightly and at first, she thought he was being playful and intimate, but then she saw anger in his eyes. He sternly and rather loudly questioned, “What’s she doing here so early?” He then threw her arm aside and told her to get out and shut the bedroom door.
Lakshmi could feel the sharp shift in his temperament but set it aside as she was too excited to share the details of her debut night with her friend. Lakshmi dished out the two plates of uppama for her and Ruby that she had made in the morning for breakfast and over breakfast and hushed whispers, began spilling all the details from the exciting night before. Vishnu was starting to stir and they saw the bedroom light turn on, but ignored it.
“You should have seen the peacock headdress and shimmering gown that Tailor Sahib had for me,” Lakshmi said as she
described the details of each sequin, each stitch, and each color that made up the stunning outfit. Lakshmi and Ruby looked at each other because they felt Vishnu was listening at the door as they could see his shadow from behind the bedroom door.
“Do you have pictures?” Ruby asked, trying to stir the conversation away.
“Oh my!” Lakshmi said slapping her forehead and with a giggle. “I completely forgot to ask to take a photo. Maybe one of the girls has a snap? Or Mrs. Iyer?”
She was about to tell Ruby about the rasgullas and the note from Chef Vijaya warning her about the drink when an irate Vishnu stormed through the doors. He grabbed Lakshmi and slammed her to the ground. Ruby tried to intervene, but he swatted her away.
“My wife,” he firmly yelled, “You whore. No one needs to be taking any pictures of you.” Ruby refused to leave and reminded Vishnu that he couldn’t hurt her, now that his wife was a Kochi Queen and that he’d lose his revenue stream if he left marks on her.
“But you’re not a Kochi Queen,” he screamed at Ruby as he grabbed her hair and pulled her across the apartment and out of the door. “You are filthy trash. Black bitch.” Ruby was unphased by his ill treatment. She had grown up around insecure men like Vishnu all her life.
“Don’t you lay a hand on her, your dickhead,” Ruby retorted. “Mrs. Iyer will fire you on the spot and your alcohol pocket money will be gone forever.” She paused, then told Lakshmi that she would be back in half an hour to take her to work.
Vishnu slammed the door and turned around to Lakhsmi. He sternly told her in the deepest, quietest voice with the coldest look in his eyes, “You are my wife. My bitch. I own you. I alone.”
He then walked into the bathroom, slamming the door behind him.
Lakshmi sat there frozen on the floor of her new home. She felt as though she had stopped breathing in that moment. She looked up at Goddess Lakshmi, seated next to her Gangalee planter and prayed, “Give me strength to face my demons, Goddess Lakshmi. I want to be here in Kochi. One day, Vishnu will change. He will come around to loving me as he did last night.”
To preserve her dreams and hope, Lakshmi remembered the pills that Mrs. Iyer handed her and reminded herself that she needed to take them diligently. She got up from the floor and pulled a pill out of a tab and swallowed it. She then took three deep breaths and carried on with breakfast for Vishnu as if nothing had happened. She counted down the minutes until Ruby would return to pick her up for their shift.
~
Chapter 6 – Wrath or Krodha
"Holding on to anger is like grasping a hot coal with the intent of throwing it at someone else; you are the one who gets burned".
~ Buddha
Like this, a year went by with Lakshmi dancing between Vishnu’s affection and his tyranny. Although the situation at home was unpleasant for Lakshmi who tried ever so hard to be the dutiful wife, she found reprieve at the Kochi Queen and in her friend, Ruby. Although the Kochi Queen was known for its ill-repute, Lakshmi settled into the rhythm and humdrum of that world because it was an escape from her home life. She started making connections and friends, and her star power
as Gangalee, the Kochi Queen, shone more brightly with each performance as she received higher recognition and praise from the guests. The earnings from her performances kept Vishnu at bay, but he would still throw her around the apartment and break their few possessions whenever he drank the hard-earned money away.
Her Gangalee plant was now vibrantly blooming and throughout the apartment a fresh fragrance transported her back home to her small village in the outskirts of Idukki hills. Sometimes when she sat there in the mornings all alone, tears streamed down her cheeks and she would pray to Goddess Lakshmi, “Give me strength to keep pursuing my dreams. To have the strength to stay here in Kochi. Give me strength to stand up to my demons. Protect me from any evil.”
Over the months she had been in Kochi, her mother would text her sporadically, always with the same message. “Daughter, are you pregnant yet? I asked the village mystic and she said you should throw chilies in a crosswalk when no one is around and the moon is full and every Thursday, feed the stray golden dogs with fresh milk from a steel vessel.” Lakshmi felt defeated every time she received this message from her mother. She always avoided responding. How she missed them, but she knew her mother would never understand or even try to understand her situation.
Her life was so far from the truth and she knew her mother’s concern was that her marriage may not make it if Lakshmi didn’t bear Vishnu a son, and soon. There had been so much gossip in the village that she was infertile just as Gayatri and Devi had been. For now, Maa ji hadn’t pressured her into having children, but she knew the pressure was coming. Little did her mother, father, grandmother, Rani or anyone know how
much she suffered from Vishnu’s lies and the cruel, self-serving arrangement he had made with Mrs. Iyer.
But Lakshmi was determined that one day, she would have that luxury apartment on Marine Drive and she knew she had to continue working hard towards this dream of hers.
One afternoon after their shift at the Kochi Queen, Ruby took Lakhsmi to a bank and helped her open up a savings account to put all the earnings safely away from Vishnu’s reach.
“You will earn interest on the money you save,” Ruby explained. “So, for every hundred rupees, you will get four rupees on it in a year.” She then explained what bank tellers were and showed her how to use an ATM.
“This is crazy,” Lakhsmi shrieked as two hundred rupees came out of a slot in the wall. Lakshmi had never seen anything like that before. In their small village on the outskirts of Idukki hills, they would keep money under their mattresses and in a safe. They never had enough money or valuables needing the safety of a bank account. Lakshmi was overjoyed. It was the first time in her life that she had something in her own name. Something she owned. “Dear Goddess Lakshmi, this is just the beginning of all the treasures you are bestowing unto me. Thank you for your blessings.” Lakhsmi prayed and then reminded herself, “Grandma always did say that pain is a part of life.”
~
Every afternoon, Lakshmi looked forward to the quick lunch after her shift in the kitchen at the Kochi Queen with Ruby, but more importantly the few minutes she spent with Chef Vijaya. Those few minutes had turned into half hours that crept into Chef Vijaya’s break between shifts. Chef Vijaya had introduced her to all sorts of new foods and spices, but she stood firm on
staying away from any non-vegetarian foods, and despite his insistence, she made no exceptions for egg and fish either.
She especially enjoyed the Kochi Queen evenings with the dignitaries. She loved getting all glammed up and being the center of attention. In particular, however, she enjoyed the extra attention Chef Vijaya directed towards her during those rare evenings. He spoiled her with special desserts and that none of the other girls ever received.
These close interactions didn’t go unnoticed by Kalika and Sita or anyone for that matter. They saw how Chef Vijaya had become a fixture in the changing room backstage during their Kochi Queen rehearsals, getting closer to Monty and Tailor Sahib. Everyone knew that this was just a ruse to spend more time around Lakshmi. Even though her success continued to burn under Kalika and Sita’s skin, they knew they had to be patient and wait for the right moment to destroy their arch nemesis. They needed something compromising to show to Mrs. Iyer. Something that would bring the demise of her favorite Kochi Queen, Gangalee. They had to be careful going about this as Lakshmi was Mrs. Iyer’s cash cow. They knew that Mrs. Iyer would be willing to bend a few of her strict rules as long as the money continued to roll in. Even though they couldn’t admit it, they had also benefited from Lakshmi’s popularity with the guests through the increased tips from the increased reservations at the Kochi Queen. Everyone was brimming with joy of having a bit more wealth in their pockets, all thanks to Gangalee.
~
Vishnu never came to any of the shows or rehearsals. He never showered Lakshmi with any appreciation or approval for all her hard work. He never gave her any praise. Even though Lakshmi
preferred limited contact with him, she still wished that her husband, the person who was meant to be closest to her and looking after her in this big city, would be there for her. He was cold and distant or he was cruel and tyrannical.
One evening, Vishnu was present at a rehearsal as he waited for Mr. Iyer for his assignment for the evening. He sat in the shadows in the corner of the room as Guru ji instructed the girls on the formation and dance sequence for the evening’s performance.
“One, two, three,” Guru ji said. “And turn.”
Vishnu’s eyes were laser focused on Lakshmi and she could feel his eyes follow her every move. She was distracted and scared in his presence.
“Gangalee!” Guru ji yelled at her. “Where is your focus today?” Lakshmi had missed her steps.
Kalika and Sita looked at each other, reading each other’s mind without having to say anything to one another. How could they have missed this? Drama at home.
Lakshmi hated that Vishnu’s presence shook her as much as it did. Even though there was nothing official between them, Lakshmi feared that Vishnu would notice any slight interactions she had with Chef Vijaya. The two had grown closer to one another over the months through the lunch breaks and evening rehearsals. They had this inexplicable chemistry when they were in a room together that no one could ignore.
Ruby had noticed this too, but hadn’t said anything because it hadn’t gone beyond an amicable friendship and she felt Lakshmi deserved that much. The poor girl needed as much love and attention from anyone and anywhere she could, outside the cold jealous environment that was her marriage.
As Vishnu sat there, hidden from the spotlight, someone had come out to the kitchen to signal that dinner was ready for the crew. He hadn’t noticed Vishnu in the corner, and Chef Vijaya’s eyes lingered over Lakhsmi, admiring her form for a second longer than he should have.
Vishnu noticed this attention towards the troupe, but in particular, Chef Vijaya’s eyes focused on Lakshmi’s hips as she thrust them in line with the beat. Vishnu’s jealousy and ire grew, but he sat there still as a rock and best that he could. He waited for Mr. Iyer in the shadows, which seemed to grow into a darker space as he seethed. “So, this is how Lakshmi spends her time?” he thought. “Flirting with other men when I’m not around. A whore through and through.”
Guru ji paused the girls’ practice so they could sit down to eat. Lakshmi went over to Vishnu as she couldn’t ignore his presence in front of everyone. Luckily, Mr. Iyer had come into the room at that very moment. Vishnu brushed past Lakshmi and went to Mr. Iyer, who announced, “Vishnu, you are a very lucky man. Our Gangalee is a hit. A firecracker!”
Vishnu masked his anger with false joy and thanked Mr. Iyer for his compliments for his wife.  Mr. Iyer handed him the itinerary for one of the VIPs that would be staying at the hotel but not participating in the Kochi Queens event that evening. Vishnu only wished he was, so he could see the shamelessness of his wife on display. The fact that he was profiting from her, eluded him. He would deal with Lakshmi later tonight. He left not even acknowledging Lakshmi’s presence. This again, didn’t go unnoticed by Kalika and Sita who scurried through the kitchen to get ahead of Vishnu before he reached the hotel entrance where Vishnu had parked the car.
~
“Oh, she is something that Gangalee,” Kalika said loudly as Vishnu was in ear shot of them. “She is everyone’s darling.
“Yes, the way she flirts with every man in those slinky, revealing outfits. And that Chef Vijaya seems to have taken a fancy to her too,” Sita said.
“But sister. She hasn’t charmed just him.” Kalika said laughing out loud.
Sita said, “We’re all profiting off of her body and moves. We are making triple what we used to,” Kalika said.
Vishnu grabbed Sita’s arm. “How much did you say?” he questioned her with his stone-cold eyes fixated on her.
Sita smiled realizing they had struck gold with Vishnu, but not realizing the extent of his violent nature. She coyly replied, “Oh, don’t you know?! You’re her husband, no?” She let out a cackle which only angered him and he tightened his grip around her arm until he was hurting her.
“Stop! You’re hurting me!” she yelped as she tried to wrangle out of his grip.
Kalika swatted him. “Stop, Vishnu. Stop. Fine. Ever since Gangalee joined our troop, we’ve been making three, sometimes four times as much as we used to. And Gangalee always gets extra because she’s the apple of Mrs. Iyer’s eye.”
Vishnu swung Sita’s arm free. His head was pounding as he muttered under his breath, “The whore. The cheat. The ingrate. BITCH.” Kalika and Sita momentarily felt a moment of regret in what they had revealed, witnessing first-hand how violent his temper was. But that feeling soon dissipated as they had accomplished what they had come for. They remembered that
they had to look after themselves in order to escape the harsh life they had led thus far. They happily returned to dinner, feeling a special excitement ahead of tonight’s performance and knowing that they were one step closer to returning as the Kochi Queen bees.
~
Like Kalika and Sita, Lakshmi had learned to compartmentalize the undesirable parts of her day, including this interaction with Vishnu. As a professional, she was focused on tonight’s event for Shri Narayana ji and the select guests of his political party. Shri Narayana ji was trying to curry favor with the more nationalistic members and so he had requested that the venue space be decked out in a religious Hindu theme and that the Kochi Queens perform a specially choreographed number honoring Goddess Lakshmi.
Guru ji was delighted. It would be one of the biggest challenges of her career and the troupe worked extremely hard with rigorous daily practice sessions to perfect the routine. Tailor Sahib worked closely with Monty to ensure that the outfits were sublime, with Lakshmi’s outfit being the most audacious creation of them all. She was to descend in a swing from above the stage as Goddess Lakshmi.
Her outfit was the most elaborate he had ever made and was even more daring than the peacock costume she had worn at her debut. She would be bejeweled from top to bottom and her hands and feet had been painted with henna with intricate patterns. A tight ruby red sari with heavy gold embroidery had been readied for her. Atop, she would wear an updo with her locks secured with jasmine and Gangalee flowers interwoven into a huge crown. Monty suggested dramatic black eyeliner to accentuate her alluring almond eyes with delicate rose cheeks
and a large red bindi. He suggested tightening her blouse to accentuate her cleavage, which he dusted with golden sparkles.
“Sure, sure. They’re a religious sort, but at the end of the day, they’re men,” Monty chuckled as her secured Lakshmi’s breasts a bit more tightly in her already snug blouse. Tailor Sahib was overjoyed to work so closely with his muse. Even with a wife and four daughters and a son at home, his fingers never failed to linger too long when measuring the girls, but in particular, he enjoyed Lakshmi’s presence. Lakshmi had grown accustomed to his creep-like behavior, coming to the understanding that he was too terrified to step over the line Mrs. Iyer had marked. She kept a close eye on anyone that came near her girls. The mere closeness to the girls and the opportunity to measure their young, voluptuous figures was enough to squash his urges.
As what had become a usual thing, Chef Vijaya had made his way into the changing room ahead of the big event which Mrs. Iyer had seemed to have accepted. He seemed to do no harm, especially since his charm only added to the creative atmosphere. He appeared to hobnob only with Monty and Tailor Sahib, feigning interest in their conversations on materials and make-up techniques, while the girls relished in his male attention from afar. Chef Vijaya wasn’t just interested in any girl, however. He found whatever opportunity he could to exchange flirtatious glances with Lakshmi or find ways to be by her dressing table so he could chat with her casually and to not arouse Mrs. Iyer’s suspicions.
“What should we call you tonight?” he serenaded her. “Or am I even allowed to be in the presence of such a mighty goddess?” His warmth and presence always pleased Lakshmi and she melted away into their safety. His presence gave her hope for the next day. “I have a surprise for you in the kitchen when you have a break.”
Ruby had stayed back to help with preparations that evening for Mrs. Iyer, along with some other girls on the cleaning staff, as the event required more hands than usual. As she was helping set up the stage with a lavish display of flowers and ornamental fringe, she caught Chef Vijaya coming out of the changing room with a broad smile on his face. She knew that he had been there to see Lakshmi. She loved her friend very much, but couldn’t help but feel a pang of jealousy. Lakhsmi was able to capture the hearts of everyone in such a short time, especially that of Chef Vijaya’s. He wasn’t just a lady’s man. He just hadn’t ever been interested in her because she was not good enough for him.
Mr. and Mrs. Iyer came into the venue space for inspection. Mrs. Iyer was proudly holding a large intricate golden staff in her hand and a box of huge lotuses. “Ruby, Chameli, come. Come here,” Mrs. Iyer beckoned. “Put these lotuses at each of the tables.” She turned to Mr. Iyer and remarked, “This will be the biggest night of them all. What do you think of my work darling?”
Mr. Iyer was brimming and replied, “Mrs. Iyer, you have outdone yourself once again. We are going to have a very content Shri Narayana ji and tonight is going to blow his guests’ minds. And we may make a pretty bob or two.” He snickered as he made a money gesture by rubbing his thumb against the tips of his index and middle fingers.
At that moment, Guru ji had called the troupe to the stage. Each one of the five Kochi Queens was decked out in beautiful costumes and make-up, but when Lakshmi approached center stage, Mr. and Mrs. Iyer were awe-stricken as was everyone else gathered in the venue. Ruby looked at her friend adoringly, but still hurt from her earlier thought wondered, “I could never be that beautiful. All the make-up in the world couldn’t fix this.”
Lakshmi looked in her direction and gave her a big smile and Ruby reciprocated with warmth and encouragement. At the end of the day, Ruby had never allowed her negative feelings about her life to hurt anyone else, least of all the only supportive girl friend she had in this world.
“Gangalee dear,” Mrs. Iyer could be heard exclaiming. “Or shall we say Goddess Lakshmi herself who has so auspiciously blessed us with her presence. No wonder we have been bestowed with such wealth and good fortune upon your arrival. Here, here. Goddess Lakshmi wouldn’t be complete without her golden staff.” Lakshmi felt slightly embarrassed with all the adoration directed her way.
“We are about to open the doors and host our biggest event at the Kochi Queen, ever,” Mrs. Iyer announced. “We will need all hands on deck.”
“Staff,” Mr. Iyer said pointing to Chef Vijaya who had come out of the kitchen along with the boy, Ruby and the other helpers. “We will need you to ensure that every guest is fed to their heart’s content. Every guest always has a drink in hand. And no one leaves having a negative thought. Let’s be the most hospitable hosts that Shri Narayana ji and his group have ever seen. Good luck to us all. Now go to your stations! Go!” Everyone disbanded at that command.
With some time to spare, Lakshmi went to the kitchen for the surprise Chef Vijaya had for her. He was busy in preparations and ordering the boy around, but when he caught a glimpse of her, he stopped and admired her.
“Goddess Lakshmi has come to bless me in my kitchen,” he said as he approached her and held her hand. “You are so beautiful, my grace.” He held her gaze and slowly kissed her gently on her hand. She allowed him to hold her hand but then quickly
retracted it upon his kiss, remembering that she was a married woman, even though she had been betrothed to a monster.
From his pocket, Vishnu pulled out a letter and a gold necklace with a gold heart-shaped locket. “Good luck tonight, my Goddess divine.” Lakshmi had never received a gift from a man before. She looked deeply into his eyes and silently thanked him for the grand gesture. And then with that girlish naivety that had caught everyone’s hearts, she quickly left the kitchen to get back to her duties.
She slipped back into the dressing room, where Lakshmi hid the letter and gift with her clothes. She was glowing at the thought of his gesture which inspired more confidence in her. Unbeknownst to Lakshmi, however, Kalika and Sita had also noticed how she had slipped into the kitchen before the show and how she had come back to the dressing room to quietly hide something within her clothes. Guru ji, Monty and Tailor Sahib had called Lakshmi over and were fussing over her with last minute touch-ups, giving the girls the opportunity to sift through Lakshmi’s belongings without anyone noticing.
Kalika and Sita found the locket and looked at each other. They opened the locket. One side had a mirror and the other was a picture of Lakshmi from her debut performance. Sita unraveled the letter and whispered aloud to Kalika:
“Most beautiful, fairest, most gracious, Lakshmi, ever since you came to the Kochi Queen, I have not been able to quell my thoughts of you. You appear in my dreams, beautiful goddess supreme. I would do anything for you to be mine. Here is a small token of my affections for you. When you wear this or have it close at hand, know that I am always yours.”
Sita smiled wickedly. She took out her phone and took a quick snap of the letter and gold chain. She then texted both to Vishnu.
“Girls, girls, hurry, the performance is about to start,” they heard Guru ji call out to them in the distance. They quickly stuffed the letter and chain back into Lakshmi’s clothes and hurried back excitedly to take their roles as background dancers. They were pleased with themselves, knowing that the text would make this their last performance as extras and that tomorrow, they would replace Lakshmi in the “Gangalee” show.
~
Shri Narayana ji and his guests filed into the venue, impressed by the grandness of the decor. Tonight, the Kochi Queen Hotel offered an intimate setting with a chef’s tasting menu full of pure vegetarian India delicacies. The lighting in the room was dimmed to add to the ambiance and Indian classical music subtly played in the background.
Mr. and Mrs. Iyer were only observers tonight and not seated at the main table with the politician. They stood in the background in case they were beckoned to attend to any of Shri Narayana ji’s needs. The couple marveled at how they had transformed this once dingy venue place into a hot spot for a relatively influential local politician. They turned to one another with broad smiles, acknowledging the incredible growth they had experienced over the year and as a result of Gangalee’s arrival.
Tonight, the Kochi Queen Hotel had a full staff, which included Ruby, who were waiting tables to make sure no glass went empty, that plates were removed after each of the ten courses, and any request of a guest was satisfied. The politician was paying a hefty fee and although it didn’t cover every extra detail Mrs. Iyer thought was necessary, Mr. and Mrs. Iyer had agreed that even if they went a little bit in the red tonight, it was an investment for their future growth. If tonight’s event went flawlessly, they were assured that through word of mouth they
would have even more events to plan, transforming their hotel from a seedy motel for discrete encounters onto the map as a Kochi VIP hot spot.
After the appetizer courses had gone out and the chit chat slowed, Mrs. Iyer went to the center of stage and announced, “Gentlemen, we are very honored to have you here with us tonight. We have a very special show specially choreographed by Guru ji, who has been involved in a number of Tollywood blockbuster dance shows and has an illustrious career. We are also very pleased to introduce you all to the fabulously beautiful and talented, Gangalee, who will be performing a dance as Goddess Lakshmi herself and blessing each and every one of you in your upcoming endeavors. Gentlemen, please welcome Gangalee and the Kochi Queens.”
Mrs. Iyer exited the stage and four girls emerged. Kalika and Sita hated being side pieces in what was now Gangalee’s show, but they felt proud that tonight was going to be the last night that that bitch would have all the glory. From the stage, they could see the men crane their necks trying to get a glimpse of Gangalee. Some of the men started to get annoyed seeing only the extras on stage. The politician glared at Mr. and Mrs. Iyer. But then as the performers were dancing, the stage filled with fog and a beautiful, ethereal figure descended.
“Wow!” the men went wild, standing up now to get a better glimpse of the ethereal creature and whistling. Chef Vijaya had stepped out, along with Ruby, the boy, and the rest of the staff to catch the show. They all stood in awe of Lakshmi’s over-the-top entrance. Mr. and Mrs. Iyer smiled. They could see that the politician was overjoyed as the room filled with loud whistles and loud applause as they admired her from afar.
“She is truly a divine creature,” Ruby thought as she felt happiness for her friend. She tried to silence her jealousy as
she stood in the dark corner of the venue, further concealed in the shadow. Lakshmi danced in the spotlight on the stage with such grace and charisma. It was as if Goddess Lakshmi herself had descended from the heavens themselves to provide such a spectacular evening at the Kochi Queen Hotel. One that no one had seen there before. A blockbuster night.
~
After the show, Lakshmi was mobbed by attention from the politician and his friends. They wanted pictures with the Goddess herself, her autograph, and just any small interaction from her had them swooning. Lakshmi had a star quality about her and knew how to move through the crowd, until Mrs. Iyer came to her rescue. She herded Lakshmi back to the safety of the changing rooms to refresh and get ready to entertain at the dinner table for the remaining part of the evening.
“When she speaks, her words are like honey,” a rotund man with a terrible combover and a big mole under his nose remarked.
“Shri Narayan ji, you keep up the entertainment like this and you have my vote for your next ten campaigns,” a tall, lanky man dressed in the purest of white shirts and matching dhoti with a gold border said as he slapped the politician on the back.
“What a knockout performance! You have our support.” another compliment came from the group of men.
The politician was very pleased. He had earmarked a large part of his contributions to the entertainment bucket knowing that much of politics was the wining and dining. He pulled Mr. Iyer aside and whispered in his ear, “Once a month till my next election in six months, guaranteed. But that Gangalee must be in every show.” He then signaled to his aide who brought over a white cotton pouch full of cash. Mr. Iyer could not help himself
and smiled ear to ear and shook hands securing the deal with the politician. “Don’t forget to thank your missus,” the politician said with a wink as he left to join his guests.
Mr. Iyer quickly slipped into the changing room, where the girls were freshening up and the heavy crown that Lakshmi adorned was being taken off.
“Let her hair down tonight and add in more curls. These are traditional men. Enough skin, but not too much should be revealing on our girls,” Mrs. Iyer could be heard. Mr. Iyer grabbed her and pulled Mrs. Iyer aside as he put the pouch in both her hands. “Six more months of shows,” he told her as her eyes widened ecstatically under the weight of the money and the good news.
“Jai Lakshmi Mata! Jai Lakshmi Mata!” Mrs. Iyer chanted and held up her hands. “Girls, tonight we have been blessed. Blessed by Goddess Lakshmi herself!” She ran over to Lakshmi and embraced her so tightly. “You are the daughter I never had. Gangalee, our blessing.” Mrs. Iyer went to her office and counted the cash as the girls got ready. It was so much cash. She took twenty-five percent of the cash and put it in the safe, and then divided up the money for Guru ji, Monty, Tailor Sahib, the staff, the girls, but set aside ten percent of the remainder for her golden goose. Mrs. Iyer was a shrewd businesswoman but a fair one. Even though the Kochi Queen Hotel had been struggling, she knew she needed to keep the star happy and loyal and, in her mind, nothing spoke louder than the rupee in a big expensive city to secure that relationship.
Mrs. Iyer came out and handed everyone their share of the pie. “Keep them happy with the rest of the evening and we will see many more rewarding nights like this, girls,” Mrs. Iyer told them as their faces brightened instantly with the generous pay out that night. Everyone’s faces shone bright except Kalika and Sita’s.
The extra money was great and all, but they hadn’t come this far to be background dancers. They itched to be stars, not just at the Kochi Queen Hotel but perhaps one day, in Tollywood. They hated the attention Lakshmi was receiving in that moment and they couldn’t wait till she got home. Vishnu was going to destroy her once and for all and the thought of that sparked a new joy in their dark hearts as they joined the other girls at the tables for the rest of the evening’s entertainment.
~
As the Kochi Queens joined the guests, the entrees were just being served. A large green banana leaf was beautifully laid out in front of Lakshmi by her friend, Ruby. Both girls exchanged warm looks, Ruby quietly congratulating her friend with her eyes. The boy then approached the table with a large tray full of little tiny bowls with generous portions of various dishes. There was fluffy basmati rice in one, lentils in another, mushroom fry, vegetable stew, bread, pickles, and so many rich delicacies.
Although Lakshmi could have wiped her plate clean in under five minutes after the night’s performance, she pecked slowly at her food in an elegant fashion as she engaged in vibrant conversation with the men who tore through the meal, burping along the way with the spices bellowing out as they spoke between or through bites. In addition to training hard for the dance this evening, she had studied the latest news, politics, history, and arts with Ruby. She always knew what interested the men and realized that a small tidbit here or there could help with any awkward silences and spur conversations.
Lakshmi’s beauty, however, was always one of the hottest topics at the table. Many a times she would feel a man staring at her, unapologetically, whether at the table or from across the room. It made her feel uncomfortable at first, but over the year, she had
grown used to such attention. Sometimes a man would come up to her to just get her autograph and linger a bit too long. She had no idea what an autograph was at first but then learned to scribble something down on the piece of paper for her adoring fan. She soon developed a distinguished signature that matched her personality and charm. Lakshmi felt like a Tollywood star with all the attention that was thrown her way. The way she was adored made her feel special and worthy, as she had never felt before. Never felt in particular in Vishnu’s presence. In that thought, there was emptiness in her fans’ admiration.
Mr. and Mrs. Iyer came around the tables, staying behind the scenes and being available an earshot away in case the politician had any special requests or needs. They made their round at Lakshmi’s table with the politician profusely thanking them for blessing him and his guests with Goddess Lakshmi.
“My campaign this year is going to go so well,” the politician remarked as he turned to a religious garbed man. “Pujari sahib has analyzed my stars and it is my year to shine, Mr. Iyer.” Then, the politician got up and put his hands on Lakshmi’s shoulders. “And this is my lucky charm. Yes? Pujari sahib?”
With a big smile, the priest dressed in a dhoti and a sacred thread draped from his left shoulder to his hip, wrapped up in a beige shawl said, “Yes, Shri Narayan Ji. And tonight, you were blessed with Goddess Lakshmi herself who has come in this earthly form.” Pujari Sahib then pointed his glass of beer in Lakshmi’s direction and then took a long drink without losing his gaze over her. The table went wild with cheers as the men drank to Lakhsmi.
Mrs. Iyer came round to Lakshmi and gave her a hug, then said, “Gangalee is a true blessing. Like the daughter I never had. Even my own children haven’t brought me as much success as this divine creature.” She lifted Lakshmi’s hair and draped it across
her right shoulder to expose Lakshmi’s beautiful, swanlike neck. With the hair tucked to one side, the men caught a glimpse of her nape. Her hair cascaded down to her tightly pinned up breasts and their attention was subtly directed to Lakshmi’s cleavage. Mrs. Iyer knew that these men were the religious sort but thirsty for feminine attention. She subtlety directed their attention where it needed to be. These beautiful, young women were out of the men’s usual orbit so when the men returned home, they did so to their boring wives and families or in Pujari Sahib’s case, back to his sanctimonious duties.
All of a sudden, a loud kerfuffle could be heard in the kitchen. Pots were being thrown about and loud male voices could be heard yelling. The boy came running out of the kitchen, stew splashed all over the front of his uniform. He grabbed Mrs. Iyer, pulled her aside and frantically whispered something in her ear. Her face changed from one of contentment and pride to confusion and anger as she assessed the situation in real time. Everyone’s attention had turned away from the peaceful evening to the drama ensuing in the kitchen. When the noise didn’t die down, Mrs. Iyer swiftly grabbed her husband and ushered to one of the bigger male attendants to follow them as they proceeded into the kitchen.
Lakshmi and Ruby looked at each other and froze in terror. They were all too familiar with the other voice in the kitchen. It was an irate Vishnu. Ruby was so confused at what could have triggered him and looked at Lakshmi hoping that she knew the cause. Ruby then saw Kalika and Sita snickering together at the commotion. Even though she didn’t know what exactly had happened, Ruby was assured that those two had some hand in this.
Lakshmi was frozen. Despite the conversation that swirled around her, she felt a deafening silence. “Gangalee, Gangalee?”
one of the guests said trying to get her attention. Ruby saw this and came round immediately to help her friend.
“Sir, may I get you anything more? Or may I clear your plate?” Ruby said politely as she put her hand on Lakhsmi’s shoulder. Feeling the warm, familiar hand, Lakshmi broke from her trance and took a quick breath as if she had resurfaced from being under the water for a while. The color hadn’t quite returned to her cheeks, but her charm creeped back as she continued on with conversation amongst the male company. They were entranced by her captivating beauty that they forgot the commotion ensuing in the kitchen in that moment.
After twenty minutes or so, Mr. and Mrs. Iyer emerged from the kitchen, calm and composed as if nothing had happened. The night was almost over and everyone continued to entertain the politician and his guests. As the meal had been very heavy, Chef Vijaya had opted for a lighter, cooling dessert and out came kulfis as the final course with trays of cardamom tea.
The kulfi was playfully decorated with pistachios and rose petals. With each bite, Lakshmi tasted the rich cardamom flavor from the pods that Lakshmi had recently given Chef Vijaya. She thought to herself how talented he was, ignoring in that moment the terrible argument that had just occurred between her husband and the chef. She felt nostalgic for her time on the cardamom estate that she had worked at near her small village in the Idukki hills.
~
The evening came to a close with the politician profusely thanking Mr. and Mrs. Iyer for a spectacular evening despite the hiccup in the kitchen. “I cannot wait till next month’s
performance. The expectations are high. Very high,” the politician said as he departed the venue a very jovial man.
Once he left the hotel, the tone in the room changed instantly. The staff, including Ruby, the Kochi Queens, Guruji, Monty, Tailor Sahib and the boy from the kitchen were all there. Chef Vijaya and Vishnu were missing. Mr. Iyer stood back and Mrs. Iyer paced back and forth in front of the employees. Her face was full of disappointment and anger.
“Chef Vijaya has given his notice today and will be leaving the Kochi Queen effective immediately,” she said and then looked directly at Lakshmi, then Kalika and Sita disapprovingly. “We will find a replacement for him ASAP, so if you have any relatives or friends that you think could fill his position, come to me directly. Everyone is dismissed for the night, except Lakshmi, Kalika and Sita.” Everyone dispersed quickly signaled by Mrs. Iyer’s commanding nature.
Ruby pressed Lakshmi’s arm with reassurance and told her she would wait outside for her, but her gesture was interrupted by Mrs. Iyer, “No, Ruby. Go home. Vishnu will take his wife home.” Ruby shuddered at the thought and could feel Lakshmi’s heart sink.
Ruby exited, choosing to leave through the kitchen to check on Chef Vijaya. In the kitchen, she found a disheveled man with a pack of ice on his left eye and a darkening red blood stain that had run down his crisp white chef jacket. Ruby quickly deduced what had happened and was certain that Kalika and Sita’s jealousy had prompted their meddling.
“Are you okay?” she said, comforting Chef Vijaya.
“I will be,” Chef Vijaya said and continued, “Kalika and Sita told Vishnu about the tips.” Ruby gave Chef Vijaya a confused look with a cocked head. He continued on with his eyes looking at the
ground, “And they showed him the picture in the gold locket and note I gave her earlier this evening. I love her, Ruby. And I think she loves me back.”
Ruby smacked her forehead. “You fool. Of all the girls that come through here, why did you have to pick the married one to pursue? Now you’re out of a job and Vishnu’s going to destroy her when we get home. Where is he?”
“Mr. Iyer sent him home with Dravid and told Vishnu to calm down,” Chef Vijaya replied. “As long as my beauty…” He was interrupted as Mrs. Iyer walking in with Lakshmi in tow.
“Good, Ruby. You’re still here. Change of plans. Take Lakshmi home immediately,” she said as she yanked Lakshmi forward and put Lakshmi’s hand she was holding into Ruby’s. Ruby stood there frozen for a moment until Mrs. Iyer barked, “Go!” The girls quickly disappeared as Mrs. Iyer pulled Chef Vijaya by the ear towards her and then slapped him hard.
“All these years you were working here and she’s the only girl you decide to fool around with…” Mrs. Iyer’s voice trailed off as the girls left the kitchen and hurried home.
~
The girls stood silently on the bus home. Lakshmi could feel Ruby’s disappointment in her, but it was Ruby who was actually disappointed in herself. “Only if I had given her a firmer warning about staying away from Chef Vijaya,” Ruby thought as she looked back on Lakshmi’s flirtations with Chef Vijaya. She shook her head in dismay.
The bus ride home was nerve-racking for both Lakshmi and Ruby. It was so late at night that they had no where else to go but home. Here they knew the tyrant would be sitting in wait for them. Ruby texted Dravid to see where he was and what
Vishnu’s temperature was like, but as usual, she didn’t receive a response the entire way there. She was ticked off with Dravid, thinking, “This is so Dravid. He’s never there when you need him.”
Finally, the bus dropped Lakshmi and Ruby off and they walked to their building. They held each other’s hand tightly as they approached Apartment 6F. They both took a deep breath as Lakshmi opened the door. The suitcases and their contents had been tossed everywhere, but no one was in the living room. They looked at each other in fear as they checked the bedroom. Empty. Lakshmi went to the kitchen where she found her planter full of her lively Gangalee blossoms smashed to the ground and the Goddess Lakshmi statuette by it, smashed into pieces. Lakshmi knelt down next to the planter and picked up her broken blossoms. She let out a wail so loud, one that Ruby had never heard even when Vishnu would beat or rape her. Ruby could see the despair in Lakshmi’s eyes as she tried to console her little sister. Suddenly Ruby heard a noise in the hallway and she got up, scared that Vishnu had returned.
She shook Lakshmi and loudly whispered that she had to get up. Lakshmi was so deeply rooted on the floor and wouldn’t budge no matter how hard Ruby tried to pull her up. Ruby started panicking as she heard footsteps come closer to the apartment door. It opened and she looked up and saw Dravid meekly peeking in.
“You scared us,” Ruby exclaimed running into his arms, then punching his shoulder. “Why didn’t you respond to my text?”
“I was with Vishnu and he was mumbling about some locket and money. He was very angry so I got him drunk and gave him a sedative. He’s flat out sleeping. I finally got away. What happened?” he questioned. Ruby shook her head, sat down on
the sofa and held her head as she looked down at the floor in dismay.
“That buys us till the morning,” she replied and proceeded to tell Dravid what took place that evening as Lakshmi sat there on the kitchen floor blankly looking at her broken planter and statuette. After some time, Ruby and Dravid lifted Lakshmi up and Ruby took Lakshmi to get changed for bed. They knew Lakhsmi needed her rest for whatever tomorrow would bring with Vishnu rising from his slumber, hung over and recovering from the effects of whatever sedative Dravid had given him. Dravid cleaned up the kitchen and threw the broker planter with dirt and the broken blossoms along with the statuette into a trash bag and tied it up to be thrown out in the morning. He bid them goodnight and told Ruby to stay with Lakshmi the rest of the night.
Finally, Ruby got Lakshmi to drink some water, and on Lakshmi’s insistence, Ruby lay down beside her terrified friend in the bedroom. Lakshmi was trembling, and Ruby was too afraid to close her eyes. She just stared at the door in the darkness, fearing that it would swing open with Vishnu would come charging in and beat the daylights out of both of them.
~
Ruby was awakened by sounds in the kitchen. She must have drifted off, exhausted from the events of the prior night. She cautiously opened her eyes and looked around. She couldn’t hear any voices outside, so she got up and opened the door to the bedroom. It was just Lakshmi. Lakshmi had risen as though nothing had transpired the night before. She had filled up the buckets with water and was preparing breakfast and dinner. Ruby crept out.
“He’s not here,” Lakshmi said, noticing her friend. “Come, freshen up and have some rava kesari bhat and my special cardamom tea.” Lakhsmi had a huge smile on her face, but a coldness sat behind the feigned warmth. It felt ominous to Ruby as she got ready and joined Lakshmi for breakfast.
“I’ve made sambar for dinner to go with dosa,” Lakshmi said. “You and Dravid should join us tonight. I made plenty.” Ruby nodded and smiled hesitantly at Lakshmi. Lakshmi was chattering away as the two sat and ate the bhat, which was more delicious than any other times that Lakshmi had prepared it. It was almost time to head into work and Ruby didn’t have any fresh garments but also didn’t want to go down the hallway. Upon Lakshmi’s insistence, she borrowed a brand new, embroidered salwar kameez from her friend who had tucked this one away for some special occasion. Ruby tried to refuse the unused garments, but Lakshmi didn’t seem to let up. As she got ready in the bathroom, she heard Dravid and Vishnu come in.
“Good, Dravid is there too at least,” Ruby whispered to herself as she hurriedly changed out of her previous day’s clothes and into the fresh ones. As far as she could hear, everything was going well outside. Ruby stepped out of the bathroom with the boys seated on the sofa.
“Bring me fresh tea. Not this warmed up shit that you and that bitch have already had,” Ruby heard Vishnu bellow at Lakshmi as he pushed away the cup of tea.
“A fresh cup of cardamom tea for you too, Dravid?” Lakhsmi asked as she handed Dravid a plate of bhat. He shook his head, avoiding her gaze. “One cardamom tea coming up, Vishnu,” Lakshmi said eerily calm and cheerfully. There was something different in Lakhsmi’s voice and Ruby couldn’t quite place what. Ruby popped into the kitchen and saw Lakshmi grind up the spices and then open a drawer where she pulled out a small box.
She dropped in a few seeds into the tea spice mix in the mortar and then popped the rest into an emptied dahi container of soil she had next to her. She tossed the small box into the trash, ground up the contents in the mortar, and then threw in the freshly ground cardamom pods, spices, and the Gangalee seeds into the tea to boil.
Lakshmi noticed Ruby’s presence behind and said, “I only made fresh tea enough for Vishnu. Once this is made, let’s go to work.” Lakhsmi proceeded to water the container of soil and freshly planted seeds and set the pot on the windowsill where her planter had been. The two women stood in silence as the tea boiled. Lakhsmi added milk and sugar as Vishnu desired and handed Vishnu his cup of freshly made tea. She cleared the empty plates and signaled to Ruby that it was time for them to go. And with that, the two women left the apartment. Ruby was so relieved at how calmly the morning went and that her worst nightmare was now behind her. She overlooked the addition to the tea as perhaps Lakshmi’s secret formula to a perfect cup.
~
The bus ride to the Kochi Queen was different this morning. Lakshmi didn’t say a word but had a broad, peaceful smile brimming across her face as she looked out the barred windows and the breeze gently whispering through her hair. Ruby was not sure how to feel about Lakshmi’s reaction but after the rough night, invited the quiet morning. Everything seemed to be going so smoothly, so she let it slide. The two women arrived at the hotel, changed into their uniforms and proceeded upstairs to clean the VIP suites as they had many a times together over the past year.
It was an hour into their cleaning and the girls were working hard in Room 204. The room was fortunately unoccupied this
morning, but everything had been turned upside down after what looked like a wild after party. Again, the girls worked in total silence, not mentioning the morning or what had transpired the night before. Ruby could hear Lakshmi’s cell phone vibrate several times, but Lakshmi ignored the calls and stayed focused on stripping the bedding and scrubbing the stains left behind by last night’s guests.
Ruby couldn’t ever imagine what was going to happen next. Dravid called Ruby’s cell and started talking erratically, so frantically she couldn’t understand a thing he was saying and only got bits and pieces. She asked him to slow down and take a breath.
“Vishnu,” Dravid said. “Stopped breathing.” She asked him to repeat himself, slowly. He told her he had called Lakshmi’s phone several times but couldn’t reach her, so he called her. Ruby learned from Dravid that Vishnu had been complaining about Chef Vijaya and his dirty intentions towards Lakshmi and how he was going to teach Lakshmi a lesson tonight. But then, all of a sudden, his breathing stopped while he was driving towards the airport that morning to greet Mohan Das, a businessman visiting from Dubai. It took a moment for Dravid to assess what was going on, and luckily by the time he grasped the situation, they just missed crashing into another car on the highway, only grazing the other car. Dravid was able to push on the brake and stop the car. He had called emergency services, but it was going to take them too long to get to them, so they suggested he drive back towards the hospital.
Dravid then had to move Vishnu onto the passenger seat with the help of the other car’s driver, and he drove Vishnu as quickly as he could to Sunrise Hospital on Airport Road. Then, Dravid broke the difficult news. Vishnu hadn’t made it. He was dead.
They couldn’t revive him and he had passed away from a heart attack.
Ruby’s eyes widened as she looked across the room at a very calm Lakshmi, busily engaged in cleaning. She couldn’t believe what she was hearing and at the same time, couldn’t help but feel that Vishnu hadn’t passed away from a simple heart attack. Ruby took a step back as she pieced the morning’s events together. “Sure, he was a drunkard. Everyone knew this. But otherwise, Vishnu was in perfect health and young,” she thought as she slumped down to the floor by the foot of the bed. Lakshmi noticed and quickly came to the aid of her friend.
“What’s wrong, Ruby? Everything okay?” Lakshmi said, almost coyly. When Ruby looked up at Lakshmi blankly, Lakshmi shook her. “Ruby? Ruby, dear. What’s wrong?”
Ruby then meekly muttered as she shook her head, “Lakshmi. I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry.” Lakshmi looked at Ruby questioningly as Ruby continued on, “Vishnu passed away this morning.” Expecting her friend to burst into tears, Ruby got up and hugged her friend. Instead, Ruby was shocked, but not completely surprised, to see Lakshmi smile and then burst out into laughter.
Lakshmi then said, “I got him, Ruby. I got him. I got him before he could get us. They’ll never know that a poor, innocent, stupid girl from a small village from the outskirts of Idukki hills could do this.” Then Lakshmi looked up into the face of her friend, and pleaded, “Ruby, my dear sister, promise you won’t tell. It’ll be our little secret. We’ve killed the devil. We’ve killed the devil.” Lakshmi was laughing and jumping joyfully at the news.
Ruby was flabbergasted. She had seen Lakshmi grind the Gangalee seeds along with the other spices for the cardamom tea this morning. She suspected something was off with Lakshmi
this morning but hadn’t realized Lakshmi could be capable of something as sinister as murdering Vishnu. And Lakshmi had done so in the most surreptitious way. “There will be a police inquiry, Lakshmi. We have to be careful. No one else must know about this, otherwise we’re both going to jail,” Ruby told her friend as she trembled at the cold heartedness of Lakshmi’s actions. Yet, Ruby couldn’t help but think, “Good riddance.”
~
Chapter 7 – Sloth or Moda
“He who is not a good servant will not be a good master.”
~ Plato
Lakshmi and Ruby ran downstairs to inform Maria Ma’am of Vishnu’s passing and that they needed to somehow get to Sunrise Hospital immediately. There was no bus service that would get them there in a timely fashion and they wondered if anyone could help them out with getting a taxi. The two played helpless women, one now a widow.
Maria Ma’am was equally shocked by the news, which spread quickly across the Kochi Queen Hotel. Maria Ma’am immediately went to Mr. Iyer and Mrs. Iyer who were busy in their office managing the financial affairs and budget planning with their accountant. They both looked at each other in total disbelief. Mr. Iyer stood up and told Maria Ma’am that he’d drive the girls to the hospital. Mrs. Iyer nodded in agreement and shooed him to go quickly. The girls hopped into Mr. Iyer’s second-hand blue Mercedes and they were off to the hospital. They drove in complete silence. Ruby tried to signal to Lakshmi to cry, but Lakshmi had no tears in her to shed. She sat there, looking blankly outside the window.
“Poor girl, she’s in total shock.,” Mr. Iyer said to Ruby as he looked back at the two in the rear-view mirror of his car.  Mr. Iyer tsked as he commented on how young Vishnu was and lamented on how he was going to have to tell his parents the bad news. “I’d taken the boy on by the request of Ramesh ji. We go way back. I straightened him out best I could, but he was just one of those boys. Never was going to straighten out,” Mr. Iyer continued on, trying to break the awkwardness he felt as he made the journey to Sunrise Hospital. “So young. So young,” he trailed off, fighting off tears.
After what seemed to be the longest drive of Ruby’s life, Mr. Iyer drove into the parking lot by the Emergency Department. He told the girls he would park but that they should go in. Ruby obliged and pulled her friend out of the car and the two women made their way towards the hospital where they could see Dravid outside waving them down.
“Lakshmi. Lakshmi,” Ruby whispered as she tried to get Lakshmi’s attention. “You need to show some emotion and regret.” Lakshmi looked up at her friend, whose face was in the shadows with the sun shining brightly behind her. Lakshmi smiled at her. A smile that Ruby would never forget. A smile of pure bliss and relief.
“I’m free of that monster now. I’m free to live my life,” Lakshmi said to her friend. As they entered the hospital, they saw a frantic Dravid that quickly ran towards them, speechless as he had no idea what to say to Lakshmi. He fumbled with his words as he tried to comfort her and tried to explain that he had no idea how any of this happened.
“He was absolutely fine this morning when we left. Perhaps the sedatives I gave him last night,” Dravid mumbled. “I tried to tell the police that, but they wanted to know about the fight yesterday between Vishnu and Chef Vijaya.”
Lakshmi looked shocked. She hadn’t intended to implicate Chef Vijaya at all. She started to have a panic attack in response to that. Her breathing became irregular and heavy, until she found herself waking up on the stretcher with Ruby holding her hand.
“Poor girl. A widow at such young age,” Lakshmi woke to whisperings of the hospital staff, Ruby, Dravid and Mr. Iyer around her.
“She’s very beautiful,” a male orderly remarked.
“Yes, but second-hand now. No one will have her,” another snickered.
Lakshmi sat up on the stretcher as Ruby handed her a cup of water to drink. Then, a burly woman wearing a khaki police uniform and similarly colored hat approached.
“Lakshmi?” she questioned and Lakshmi nodded and her eyes widened at the sight of the policewoman. Lakshmi hadn’t anticipated any police involvement until Ruby mentioned it earlier. “Your husband seems to have died from natural causes, but we are running some toxicology tests to check for drugs in his system and any other anomalies.”
Lakshmi looked confusedly at Ruby. Ruby’s heart was pounding and she could feel herself begin to sweat. “Oh, Inspector ma’am is saying they have to run, eh, blood tests,” Ruby explained to Lakshmi.
“Yes,” the Inspector woman said curtly as she pounded her baton she held in one hand into the palm of the other. “The body is being transported to the coroner’s office now and Dravid has made the identification. After a few weeks, you can contact us and collect the body for funeral arrangements,” she said and then yelled to Gopal, her constable to come and give Lakshmi their card.
The inspector woman then looked Lakshmi dead in the eyes and said, “We will have a few questions at the station for you about last night. Some fight with your late husband and a Chef Vijaya,” she then clicked her fingers ushering Gopal to give them the details for the appointment at the local station in Kochi tomorrow morning.
~
After the police officers left, Lakshmi and Ruby let out deep sighs. Lakshmi hadn’t thought any of this through and Ruby started hyperventilating in response to that. Lakshmi blew some cool air in her face and shook her. “Ruby, calm down. Calm down. Everything will be okay. I know Goddess Lakshmi is with us,” Lakhsmi whispered to her friend. Lakshmi felt serenity wash over her as she realized she was no longer scared.
At that very moment, Mr. Iyer and Dravid came back from the canteen provide comfort to the grieving widow and her friend. “Girls. Eh. Lakshmi. Mrs. Iyer and I. Sorry, eh, Lakshmi for your loss. Mrs. Iyer and I will do whatever you need in the coming weeks to help you out,” Mr. Iyer stuttered as he tried to give Lakhsmi his condolences and support. Everyone knew that Vishnu was a bad-tempered alcoholic, but having taken him under his wings all these years, he saw the lad as one of his own sons. It hadn’t surprised him that the excess liquor had finally gotten the boy. After some awkward silence, Mr. Iyer left the girls and said he would head back as Dravid would take the girls home. He also promised that he wouldn’t tell Vishnu’s parents about anything until Lakshmi was ready to break the dreadful news to them, knowing that being a young widow, they would see her as unlucky and the cause of his early demise.
~
No one spoke the entire car ride home. Unbeknownst to Dravid, Lakshmi’s silence was one of relief rather than that of a bereaved widow. Lakshmi, however, was deep in thought on how she may have implicated Chef Vijaya in Vishnu’s death and how she could get around it at the police station tomorrow. She wasn’t thinking this morning when she crushed the Gangalee seeds for the special cardamom tea, which she remembered he always favored over Maa ji’s. Then it hit her. “What was she going to say to everyone back home. Her in-laws. Her parents. The village would vilify her. She was a young widow and they would all blame her for Vishnu’s death, whether it was her fault or not. To them he was a saint and had changed his ruthless ways,” she thought to herself. She turned to Goddess Lakshmi in prayer.
“Goddess Lakshmi, please help me as you have always. Please help me fulfill my dreams and save me. I took as much as I could, but I could no longer bear Vishnu’s torments. I couldn’t live like this anymore. Goddess Lakshmi, it angered me when he broke my beautiful planter and destroyed your statuette. Protect me, Goddess Lakshmi. Help me achieve my dreams here in Kochi. I do not want to go back.” Lakshmi became overwhelmed with all the possibilities. “What if the police find the poison in his system? What if they think Chef Vijaya had something to do with it because of the locket?” she thought about all the different scenarios and all the challenges up ahead. Despite the difficulties, Lakshmi still couldn’t help but feel a sense of freedom. She wasn’t scared to return back to the apartment for the first time since she moved in.
Dravid dropped Lakshmi and Ruby off at Lakshmi’s apartment and went back to his. He was very distraught seeing his friend of many years pass away right in front of him. He knew Vishnu
was no saint, but they had shared all sorts of debauchery and mischief together. Dravid couldn’t shake the feeling that Chef Vijaya had something to do with all of this, especially since it was Chef Vijaya that lost his job after being punched in the face by Vishnu yesterday.
Dravid, however, was unlikely to pursue any inquiry further than that as he also knew his friend drank terribly and something finally gave way to his reckless lifestyle. Plus, Dravid was scared that the sedative that he gave his friend may have caused the heart attack, so he reasoned it was better to stay quiet. Considering his friend’s early passing, Dravid contemplated the changes he wanted to make in his own life. He wanted to put himself on the right path and have a more stable life. He thought about cleaning up his own vices and perhaps finally starting a family with Ruby before it was too late. He thought that perhaps it was time to make her an honest woman, despite their pasts and their incompatible castes. They had been living together for years now, never putting a serious label on their relationship. Dravid felt a sense of growth and maturity in that moment.
~
In Apartment 6F, Lakshmi was seemingly too calm for Ruby’s liking. Ruby started badgering Lakshmi with a slew of questions as Lakshmi busied herself in the kitchen. Quietly as she always had been around the house, Lakshmi emptied out the spices from the pot, then washed the tea cups, plates and pot that she had used in the morning to make Vishnu’s last tea. She scrubbed the mortar and pestle whistling a sweet tune, and then bagged up the trash to take downstairs. Ruby was in disbelief at Lakshmi’s coldness and detachment from the situation.
Ruby was grateful that Vishnu was out of the picture, but never thought it would be this way. Lakshmi was a sweet, innocent girl who had lived in fear of her husband. True, he had been slowly depleting her energy and sense of security. But after Vishnu’s passing and knowing full well Lakshmi caused it, Lakshmi had lost any naiveté that Ruby had initially seen in this girl from a small village on the outskirts of Idukki Hills. She was much more complex than Ruby had initially anticipated.
When Lakshmi came back up from throwing out the trash, she proceeded to make a fresh cup of cardamom tea and finally after all the silence, Ruby saw a drop of sadness in Lakshmi’s voice as she told Ruby of one of her first encounters with Vishnu. “When his parents invited me to their house to interview me as a potential match, I remember him telling me in front of everyone that my cardamom tea surpassed even his mother’s in taste. He was so sweet and charming then.” Lakshmi then turned to look directly into Ruby’s eyes and said, “Promise me Ruby. Promise to be true to me and not tell the police what I’ve done. Only you and I know what I did, and I’ll forever be in your debt, sister.”
Ruby was glad to see some inkling of remorse in Lakshmi’s eyes in that moment because it reassured her that what Lakshmi had done was not entirely cold-hearted but the result of the nonstop abuse she had had to bear over the past year. Ruby also knew that it wasn’t just the abuse that caused Lakshmi to snap that morning, but her fear that Vishnu would inflict further pain and torture on Ruby and Chef Vijaya, not able to touch Lakshmi, Mrs. Iyer’s cash cow and his golden goose for alcohol.  Lakshmi had been thinking of her friends.
Years of living in Punjab and then in Kochi had shown Ruby that the world was a rainbow of different shades of grey. What Lakshmi had done was in itself justifiable, although not in the black-and-white letters of criminal law. She didn’t want her only
true friend to go to prison for killing a man that had no sincere appreciation for his wife and spent their marriage beating her and using her for his own gains. It made no sense to be truthful here and she promised Lakshmi then and there that she would have her back.
They sat all night discussing how they would approach the interview the next day and how to explain away the fight. They still feared that the toxicology report would trip them up in their lie, but they both felt if they stayed calm and consistent in their stories, they could possibly get away with this. At the end of the day, was the police really going to dedicate resources to an alcoholic bum like Vishnu?
~
The morning came. Ruby and Lakhsmi hadn’t slept all night and looked disheveled. They agreed that this would only add to their performance today at the station as neither felt any real grief over Vishnu’s death. They couldn’t sleep at the thought that they may be caught or that somehow Chef Vijaya could be implicated given his romantic gesture the other night.
Lakshmi made her special cardamom tea and badly joked that Ruby should not worry as this batch was not tainted. Ruby gave her a stern look, but then couldn’t help but laugh back. It helped ease the tension both of them felt. Lakshmi whipped up some sweet poora batter flavored with anise seeds. It was Ruby’s favorite and it was one of the Punjabi treats that Ruby had taught her early on in their friendship. They sat and enjoyed the tea and pancakes as the sun rose. Then, they got themselves dressed. Lakshmi had no clothes in pure white and found the most plain, dull brown cotton salwar kameez outfit she could find and Ruby found something similar. Lakshmi then held Ruby’s hand and they prayed to Goddess Lakshmi to give them
strength and protection today. Minutes into their prayers, they heard a knock on the door. It was Dravid, waiting to drive the two women to the police station for their interview.
Dravid looked run down and pitiful. He was clearly mourning the loss of his friend, both scumbags, but in relative terms, Dravid was the one with the higher moral character and was physically nonviolent. A low bar for a relationship. He knew that Vishnu was not an upstanding human. He knew that he engaged with prostitutes, drank all the hard-earned money away, lied to his family about his success in Kochi, and beat his wife. That was behavior that Dravid had grown up with and to him, it was normal. Despite knowing the ill character of this friend, Vishnu’s early death didn’t seem just. “My brother was always there for me,” he thought to himself as he reminisced about the good old bro days together. “How will I spend my days now?” Speechless and clearly distraught in his grief, Dravid ushered the two girls that it was time to head over to the police station for the interview. They hopped into the car that Vishnu once drove for the Iyers. The car still had his Aum charm that hung from the rear-view mirror that Vishnu’s mother had given him when he first came back to Kochi to find a bride. They sat in the car in complete silence as Dravid drove to the police station.
~
They arrived promptly at 8:45am, well ahead of the 9am interview time. They inquired around the station until they finally found where they needed to be. Lakshmi and Ruby sat on a bench outside Inspector Radikha Nair’s office. Dravid had to return to work and told them to text him when they were ready to head back and he’d come pick them up.
Ruby noticed how helpful Dravid was being. He had never taken any responsibility and today he was so attentive to their every
need. She knew the typical pattern of the males in her life. This event had sparked a feeling of responsibility in Dravid, but she knew it was a temporary phase of grief, although it inspired a small bit of hope in her.
Men in her life were never going to make an honest woman out of her. She saw the yearning in his eyes to change his life and to settle down, but she also knew that he had always been too afraid of any commitment and when things slowed down, he would run as he always did. Besides, she was quite content with the arrangement they had, but realized she wanted more for her life now. Although Dravid had never been abusive like Vishnu, he was just as immature and he was holding her back. She appreciated the freedom to be able to leave him whenever she chose to do so, without any whiplash from family or society, having abandoned those ideals when she left Punjab.
As they waited, Ruby’s thoughts turned to worry for Lakshmi as they sat and waited outside the Inspector woman’s office. The wait turned from a half past 9 to 10 am. Lakshmi asked the warden patrolling the corridors in the station when they’d be seen.
“What’s your hurry, pretty lady. She’s a busy woman. She is dealing with some murder case right now,” the short grouchy female warden barked at them.
Lakshmi and Ruby looked at each other and their eyes widened in shock. They immediately started feeling nervous thinking that the murder case that the warden was speaking about was that of Vishnu’s. Ruby cupped her hand around Lakshmi’s ear and whispered, “They are suspicious of us and are keeping us waiting, Lakshmi. What do we do?” Lakshmi took Ruby’s hand in hers and looked at her reassuringly and with her eyes, Lakshmi indicated her to stay quiet and calm. “With Goddess
Lakshmi’s help, everything will be okay, my dear sister,” Lakshmi said gently. “All will be well.
It was nearly noon when Gopal barged through the office doors and told the girls to come into the office. Inspector Radikha Nair was seated on a brown, worn leather office chair behind a large solid oak desk and was wrapping up a phone call. She pointed to the women to take the two seats in front of her desk. She covered the speaker on the phone and asked, “Thums Up, Limca? Tea? Coffee?” The girls shook their heads but the Inspector woman instructed Gopal to bring her a piping hot cup of Madras coffee to help her cool down on this sweltering summer day.
“Thank you for coming in. This inquiry is a formality only that we have to do in these situations. We are very sorry ma’am for having to drag you in here, but we have a few questions to clear up for the report as we wait on the autopsy results,” the Inspector woman said. She continued, “We understand that your husband was okay in the morning and had a heart attack on the way to the airport yesterday. Did he have any health issues?”
Lakshmi shook her head, “No ma’am. He drank a lot of alcohol, but that’s what men do.”
“Was he seeing a doctor?” the Inspector asked looking Lakshmi squarely in the eyes.
“No ma’am. We don’t have time. We are working all the time and are very poor,” Lakshmi said. The Inspector woman nodded her head, having seen the worst of poverty during her decade of service. Ruby was impressed by Lakshmi’s cool as the questioning continued.
“We heard there was some sort of altercation yesterday at the hotel where you and Vishnu worked. With some chef there?” she inquired further, the Inspector woman’s eyes squinting as she looked deep into Lakshmi’s eyes.
“Yes, ma’am. I dance as a Kochi Queen at the hotel and in my line of work, I have many male admirers. Chef Vijaya worked at the hotel but crossed the line. He gave me this locket and letter. The girls in my group told my husband about it and it made him angry. Vishnu beat up the chef and the chef was asked to leave,” Lakshmi said holding back tears that she manufactured in that moment. Ruby and Lakshmi had discussed coming clean up front with the police as they’d most certainly find out the details from Mrs. Iyer, if not from Kalika and Sita if a further inquiry was made.
“Yes, yes. That is what we heard too. We were able to confirm Chef Vijaya’s whereabouts last night and this morning. He was admitted to a local ER as he had a concussion and was discharged this morning, so we see no connection there,” the Inspector woman replied. In her mind, the poor sweet girl that sat before her had suffered a great tragedy so early in her years. The Inspector woman found Lakshmi to be so stunningly beautiful that it would surprise no one she would have admirers chasing after her. After all, her husband was a drunkard who lived the poors’ lifestyle, making his heart attack shocking but not out of the ordinary. The Inspector woman considered whether it was worth her station’s time and resources to waste funding on such an open and shut case. At the end of the day, the Inspector knew that whatever the case may be, the poor young woman would be vilified as a young widow by her own people even if she or Chef Vijaya had a hand in Vishnu’s death.
Lakshmi and Ruby sat there quietly for the next question from the Inspector woman as she flipped through a folder. At that moment, a clumsy Gopal came through the door with a piping hot cup of Madras coffee. “Sugar?” the Inspector woman said as she turned from the folder to Gopal and pointed to the cup.
“Yes, ma’am. Two teaspoons, stirred in just like you like it,” Gopal replied diligently.
“Excellent. After my coffee, I’m headed home. These girls can go to Tinku. And when the autopsy report comes, file it with the report please and close the case.” the Inspector woman said and then instructed the girls, “We’re done here. You can go now. Again, sorry for your loss.”
The women thanked her profusely for her time and Gopal led them to the case manager who sat at a desk at the end of the corridor. “Tinku here will help you with next steps,” Gopal said as he slapped the folder down on the desk of this lanky bespeckled man in a worn-out tan suit and awfully long tie. Gopal said good-bye, offered the women his condolences, and abruptly left.
~
Tinku was sat there in piles and piles of army green case file folders, many of which were gathering dust, stacked high around him. Ruby spoke, “Tinku sir.” But she was interrupted as Tinku raised his knobby finger telling her to pause there, without even looking at her.
After a good ten minutes of Lakshmi and Ruby just standing there as Tinku scrolled through a complex system and slowly inputted numbers into a beaten-up desktop computer, Tinku turned. “Case No. 10001928324. Myocardial Infarction.” The girls looked confused at Tinku as he explained, “Death of one, Vishnu. Yours or your husband, brother?” Lakshmi pointed to herself and muttered quietly, “My husband.”
Tinku nodded his head and then said, “Come back in two working days and we will release him to you. Please make the
funeral arrangements by then. Case has been closed by Inspector Radhika Nair.” The girls nodded feeling a sense of great calm and asked Tinku what they needed to do next. He stamped some paper, wrote in a date and time, and Tinku handed them the stamped paper. “Make sure you make the arrangements by then, otherwise the government will cremate him on your behalf.” Abruptly, Tinku then put a “Return shortly” sign on his desk and without any pleasantries left the girls standing by his desk as he headed out for his lunch hour. The station was seemingly quiet now with most of the officers out on their midday break. Lakshmi and Ruby looked at each other and let out a sigh of relief. They hurried out of the station into the marketplace.
“Let’s get far from the station and go somewhere to eat,” Lakshmi urged Ruby. “I’m so hungry, but I don’t want to think of all of this just yet. I’m not ready to plan a funeral. What will I tell everyone back home?” All of a sudden, Lakshmi started hyperventilating at the thought of being a young widow and the thought of being shunned by all of the people she grew up around in her small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills. She remembered how terribly they treated her cousin brother when both his parents had died, calling him the devil and unlucky for having caused his parents’ deaths although he had no hand in it. She lamented over how the widowed women in her village were ousted and forced to live away at a special ashram hidden from society. The torture that would come from the taunts and spite. She worried in that moment how her parents, grandmother and siblings would be harassed. She broke out into a flood of uncontrollable tears outside the station.
“I can never go back, Ruby. I can’t go back. But I must take him home to his parents so they can perform his last rites. But I can’t live there anymore. I’m a pariah,” Lakshmi wept as she took
short breaths and held onto Ruby’s forearm so tightly. “Don’t ever leave me, Ruby. Don’t leave my side. Ever.”
~
Ruby texted Dravid to let him know that they’d make their own way home and would see him in the evening. Lakshmi begged Ruby to take her on the ferry to Fort Kochi as she had still never been on a boat before despite them having now been there a year now. She desperately needed to run away from her surroundings.
“I’m just not ready to tell the folks at home, Ruby,” she pleaded. “Let’s ring the family when we are home tonight, Ruby. You’ll be my side all the way, my sister. They will brandish me as unlucky and turn their backs on me and my family. What have I done to deserve this?”
Ruby consoled her friend as they boarded the ferry and found a spot on the deck on the port side.  It was a busy time of the day and they were smushed next to the other passengers, some locals commuting, some leisure seekers and others were tourists visiting from other states or from foreign countries. When the ferry left the dock, Lakshmi held onto the rail tightly and took in the fresh salty breeze from the Arabian Sea. Even though the waters were slightly choppy, she felt a closeness to the water. A serenity that she never felt on land. The two friends stood on the ferry in silence and as they approached the jetty of Fort Kochi, Lakshmi grew excited and like a small child in a candy shop, she started jumping up and down and tugging at Ruby.
“Look at that. Look at the buildings! It is so beautiful. So different from anything I’ve ever seen,” Lakshmi exclaimed.
Ruby couldn’t help but smile despite their current situation. She was so happy to see such pure joy in Lakshmi’s eyes after
so many months. Ruby had come here several times over the years, on dates with Dravid or for odd jobs. She always made it a point to stop in at St. Francis Church. Even though she was a loose Hindu and certainly not an Anglican, there was something magnificent and elegant about the architecture of the church. She couldn’t wait to show the church and its grounds to Lakshmi, but first they would get something to eat. She was also starting to feel hungry after having sat anxious most of the day at the police station.
“Let’s find something to eat, then I’ll show you around,” Ruby said. “Then we can enjoy the sunset before heading back.”
It was all the two women wanted in that moment. A sense of escape from the impending doom they’d have to face that evening. They grabbed some snacks at a street food stall and headed to the beach to eat.
“One day, Ruby, when all this is behind us, you and I will dress up and go and eat at a nice, fancy restaurant. I’ve only ever eaten at canteens or road-side cafes, but those seaside restaurants look like something else,” Lakshmi remarked. That spark for a better life came sweeping back and lit up her face. They both smiled at each other and after having had something to satisfy their hunger, they walked over to St. Francis Church.
“Anytime I come to Fort Kochi, my dear sister, I always visit here. You know, the Portuguese built this and Vasco Da Gama, a famous Portuguese explorer, was buried here for some time,” Ruby explained to her as she delved into the bits and pieces of history she knew about the place before the two went into the grand church with an extravagant wooden ceiling and ornate stained-glass windows. They found an empty bench and sat down, where the two prayed in silence as they were surrounded by the church’s peacefulness.
“Dear Goddess Lakshmi, I know that I sit in this church today. A church of another god, but you are all one in my mind. Please give me strength to manage the days ahead and once they are behind me, help me to go to lands like Portugal and places I would never otherwise see. Oh, give me strength, my Goddess,” Lakhsmi sat there with her eyes closed, her head bowed towards the altar and with utmost concentration. “Hear my prayers and guide me as you always have.”
After sometime, the two women walked around and admired the architecture of the church before going outside and looking at the placards around the church grounds. They then headed down to the beach again where they found a spot with a throng of others to watch the sun as it slowly set. The sky changed from a cool clear blue sky, slowly burning deep red-orange. The colors softened into a purplish pink hue and the crescent moon was now visible to the naked eye. The two women sat in silence enjoying tranquility after the calamity of the past 24 hours. After some time of meditative rest, the women got up and walked back to the jetty to take the ferry home.
~
Once back at the apartment, Lakshmi sat on the sofa while Ruby put some tea on and called Dravid to come over as soon as he could. Lakshmi pulled up her mother’s contact details on her phone. They had only spoken intermittently since she had moved to Kochi. Lakshmi had done what she thought was right to protect her family from finding out too many details about her new life, slowly distanced herself from them. She hadn’t spoken to her mother now in a couple of weeks but they had texted every day. “Good morning, Mama. Yes, I’m doing okay. No, I’m not pregnant yet, but I tried the remedy the mystic suggested. Good night, Mama.” Her family had no idea what life she was living
in Kochi. They probably assumed she was living the high life of a socialite with less time for her family back home, in the small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills.
It was getting late on a Tuesday evening. Lakshmi wasn’t even sure if her father was home that day or if he was off on one of his trucking jobs. She hesitated and couldn’t get herself to make the call. Ruby brought the tea over and some Parle-G cookies. They heard a knock on the door. It was Dravid. The three of them sat together in silence, paralyzed. Lakshmi didn’t know how to break the news to her parents. Dravid didn’t know how to tell Vishnu’s parents either. They had been friends for so long now. Ruby sat there helpless too, not knowing how to help either of them.
After an hour of inaction, Ruby took the phone from Lakshmi and pressed the call button on Lakshmi’s phone. It started to ring and it continued to ring. No one picked up and so Ruby hung up. She turned to Dravid and took his phone from him and was about to try Vishnu’s parents from Dravid’s phone. Lakshmi stopped her.
“I need to tell my parents first. I need them to know so they can confront what is to come their way,” Lakshmi said finally finding words. Lakshmi texted her mother to call her as soon as she could as it was urgent. She wanted to text her friend, Rani, but the two had spoken less and less over time as Lakshmi hid the reality of her new life. The trio returned sitting there on the couch silently, waiting. Their teas now cold and the biscuits untouched.
A half hour later or so the silence was broken. Lakshmi’s phone was ringing. They looked at each other. Lakshmi didn’t know what to do, so Ruby picked up. “Hello, hello,” they heard on the other side of the receiver.
Ruby cleared her throat and replied, “Um, ah, hello Aunty. This is Ruby. Lakshmi’s friend.” She could hear Lakshmi’s mother frantically asking if Lakshmi was okay. “Yes, yes. Lakshmi is okay. Um, Aunty. I’m sorry to tell you this, but Vishnu. Ah um. He passed away from a heart attack yesterday.” Ruby heard nothing but silence on the other end. Lakshmi was looking inquisitively at her, but Ruby just stared back at her blankly. Then, Ruby heard Lakshmi’s mother’s concern on the other end of the line, “How is Lakshmi? Can I speak to my daughter?” Ruby handed the phone to Lakshmi who began to wail. Ruby could feel Lakshmi’s mother and her grandmother silent and in shock as they heard their little blossom break down in tears.
Ruby took the phone from Lakshmi and said, “Aunty. We will need to tell your in-laws. I’ll have Dravid give them a call now before it gets too late.” Devi could be heard on the receiver telling Ruby to take care of her daughter and that she should come back home soon. Ruby told her that they would be making funeral arrangements, but first would speak to the in-laws and would be in touch with them with details on next steps.
Never having done anything like this before, the trio sat there again in silence. Dravid now had to make the dreaded call to Vishnu’s parents. He rang their number again having not heard back from them. Cook picked up. “Hello, hello, may I know who is speaking?” Dravid let her know that it was him and that he urgently needed to speak with Aunty or Uncle. Cook could sense the urgency in his voice and called out to Gayatri who happened to be nearby. Dravid was half hoping that he could speak to Uncle instead. It was such a terrible thing to break to a mother that her only son that she had fought so hard for, for so long, had passed away at such a tender age, and from a heart attack of all things. He tried to beckon to Cook to hand the phone over to Uncle instead but it was too late as she had handed the
phone over to Gayatri Aunty. Dravid broke the news as gently as he could to Gayatri Aunty and he heard absolute silence on the other end of the line.
Gayatri had fainted with a very confused Cook trying to attend to her. Cook then picked up the phone to try and understand what had transpired. “Hello, hello, Dravid sahib. What has happened? Gayatri di has fainted.” Dravid told her the bad news and Cook lost all color in her face. Dravid explained the circumstances of Vishnu’s death and that they were now trying to console his young widow and make arrangements for the funeral after the police inquiry closed that day. He promised that he would call in the morning to sort out next steps.
Dravid told the girls that he would call Aunty and Uncle tomorrow morning to see if they’d like the body to be sent back to the small village on the outskirts of Idukki Hills or if they would like they to take care of arrangements in Kochi. He then wished them goodnight, with Ruby telling him that she’d stay with Lakshmi, which she knew he would not protest. Once he left, the two girls sat in silence, with Lakshmi cuddled up in Ruby’s arms. Eventually, they both dozed off and were woken the next day by the rays of the sun shining through into the living room.
~
When they woke, there were several missed calls on Lakshmi’s phone, from her parents, relatives, Rani and Maa ji and Papa ji. Lakshmi was too paralyzed to take any of the calls, so Ruby handled them all morning long. Everyone was in initial shock and Vishnu’s family wanted his body back home immediately so Vishnu could be sent off properly to the afterlife.
“Yes, uh-huh. Of course, Aunty. Ah-huh. Yes, Uncle. Thank you for speaking with Mr. Iyer. We will make the arrangements with Dravid and Mr. Iyer. I will come with Lakshmi. Yes, understood,” Ruby could be heard saying.
As the reality of being a widow sunk in, Lakshmi retreated into the bedroom, which was dark and dismal, still plagued by the terrors that Vishnu inflicted on her. She felt detached from reality. “What have I done. I’ve made a worse life for myself and my family,” she thought to herself. “They will blame me and the villagers will ex communicate me to that ashram. Why did I do this to myself>” She cried in the bed. Exhausted, she slowly drifted away on the bed.
Ruby came in to check in on her and told her she had made something light for her to eat and put some tea on the stove. Ruby told Lakshmi that she’d come as soon as they made all the arrangements with the coroner’s office, and that Mr. Iyer had arranged transport to the village for all of them for tomorrow. Lakshmi was too fragile to acknowledge Ruby, but listened to the next steps.
“When times are tough, one day at a time,” she remembered the voice of her grandmother giving this advice when she was impatient. Despite this advice, she was not looking forward to seeing her family or Vishnu’s or anyone else. She was, however, looking forward to being in the comforting embrace of her mother’s and grandmother’s arms.
Ruby returned later that evening with Dravid and Mr. and Mrs. Iyer. Lakshmi hadn’t moved from the bed or eaten what Ruby had left out. Ruby and Mrs. Iyer helped Lakshmi out of bed and to wash her face. They tried to feed her and get some liquids into her system. She ate small morsels mechanically with a blank stare looking in the distance.
“Poor girl,” Mrs. Iyer said as she pulled back a strand of hair that had fallen in front of Lakshmi’s face. “All the light in our Kochi Queen’s face has left. Our sweet little beauty.” Mrs. Iyer was concerned for Lakshmi as she had grown very fond of the girl. She had never been fond of Vishnu and with everything that Vishnu did, even his death had upended the successful event business Mrs. Iyer had grown with the Kochi Queens. In particular, with Lakshmi as their star. Their lucky charm was distraught. Then and there, Mrs. Iyer got busy by first unpacking a week’s worth of white salwar kameez and saris that she had brought with her. “You will need to wear these during the mourning period, my child,” Mrs. Iyer said. For the first time that evening, Lakshmi turned and looked into Mrs. Iyer’s eyes with such utter devastation. Mrs. Iyer shook her head feeling Lakshmi’s pain. “She is like a daughter to me and she should not have to go through such a tragedy like this so young. What a shame,” Mrs. Iyer thought to herself as she shook her head and reached over to Lakshmi to hold her tightly.
After getting Lakshmi back into bed, Ruby, Dravid and the Iyers discussed tomorrow’s itinerary. Ruby and Dravid had made the necessary arrangements that day, and the body was to be released tomorrow morning. After the procession back to the village, the cremation and funeral rites would be performed early the day following that by Vishnu’s family. With everything in place, they all decided to meet up in the early hours of the morning and head to that village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills. Everyone was exhausted from the long couple of days following Vishnu’s death. Ruby stayed with Lakshmi, while everyone left. She dozed off next to Lakshmi, not having eaten anything herself that evening.
~
It was very early the next morning. No one had really gotten any sleep and were still looking very ragged. Mr. and Mrs. Iyer were going to meet them in an hour, so Ruby busied herself around Lakshmi’s apartment making food for the morning and for the journey up ahead. She got Lakshmi ready, having her bathe and change into a white sari. Even in this, Lakshmi looked effervescent although the usual light that accompanied her had dulled. Lakshmi didn’t touch her breakfast. Her nerves were so high and fear of confronting her family, her in-laws and the villagers was eating her away inside. The thought of food nauseated her.
Ruby turned to Lakshmi seeing her lost in these thoughts and said, “Lakshmi, my dear sister, I will be with you every step of the way. You must be strong, and it will be over before you know it.” With that encouragement, Lakshmi felt a bit of peace.
Shortly thereafter, Dravid joined them and sat in silence until his phone buzzed. Mr. and Mrs. Iyer were downstairs ready to take them. Dravid picked up the suitcase for Ruby and himself, as well as the one for Lakshmi, now containing only mourning clothes of white, and headed downstairs. Ruby picked up the food she had prepared for the journey and signaled to Lakshmi to rise from the sofa and head down to the car.
The sun had not risen yet, and they could still see the full moon shining down at them and the stars twinkling. It was the clearest sky they had seen in a long while. Lakshmi sat at the back of the car with Ruby and Mrs. Iyer, as Dravid climbed into the passenger seat next to Mr. Iyer. It was highly unusual for Mr. Iyer to be doing the driving, but these were unusual circumstances. Everyone sat silently as Mr. Iyer put on a radio
channel playing morning religious hymns on low volume in the background as they begun their journey.
Lakshmi was sat in the middle sandwiched between Ruby and Mrs. Iyer. She looked on blankly through the front window of the car as they left the vicinity of Kochi. She could hear Mr. Iyer tell Dravid that they should make good time given that they were leaving before any traffic hit the morning rush hour and that halfway, they should stop at a rest stop and then Dravid could drive the rest of the way. And as Lakshmi sat there staring blankly through the front window, the scene slowly changed from the city roads to the interstate highway, to the regional highway until they stopped at a roadside eatery. Everyone got out to stretch their legs, but Lakshmi sat there like a lifeless body. The blood from her face had receded and she was pale as a sheet as they inched closer and closer to the small village on the outskirts of Idukki hills.
Mr. and Mrs. Iyer, Ruby, and Dravid sat at the tables, leaving Lakshmi in the car and giving her the space that she needed. Ruby and Mrs. Iyer went to use the ladies ‘porta-potty’ and when they came back, Mr. Iyer and then later Dravid went to relieve themselves in the field. They ordered chai all around and Ruby went to check to see if Lakshmi needed anything, but was unable to get much out of her. She made sure Lakshmi sipped some water, before she returned to the group to have her tea. They all sat pretty quietly making the odd comment here and there about the clean air of the surrounding farm land. Ruby had never been to this part of the state and wished she was going to Lakshmi’s hometown under different circumstances.
Dravid received a call that Vishnu’s body would be reaching in an hour and he informed the rest of the party. After sitting there for a few more moments, they got the courage to head back into the car and carry onwards to meet Vishnu’s family, meeting
them under such grim circumstances. With that realization, the rest of the drive was pin drop silent.
~
Upon arrival at Lakshmi’s in-laws’ home, Ruby held her friend’s hand as they stepped out of the car. Lakshmi had covered her head and looked down as she approached her in-laws’ grand house. It didn’t look so grand anymore to her. Cook was the only person waiting outside to receive them. When Lakshmi approached, she gave her a warm, consoling hug.
In these past couple of days, Lakshmi had grown frail. Ruby knew it wasn’t from Vishnu’s passing, but from the fear of being a young widow and from the impending reproachment by the villagers. They walked through the front area, where in the far corner Dumki and Chumki were grazing, seemingly unaware of the events around them. They entered this grand house with the large courtyard, with the Tulsi plant in the center. Ruby had never seen anything so lavish in a small village like this before, and was quite shocked by the comfortable circumstances of Vishnu’s upbringing. “Why would he ever leave this life?” she questioned, and then answered her own question remembering who he was.
Cook directed Mr. Iyer and Dravid to the large living room where the village elder, Ramdev, male relatives, and some of the men of the village, including Lakshmi’s father, had gathered. Lakshmi was directed to a smaller room that had been readied as the mourning area for the women. Ruby directed Lakshmi to a spot that Ruby instinctively knew was for the widow. Lakshmi was sat by a distraught older woman wailing loudly. It was Gayatri.
“My son. My only son,” she was crying and beating her chest as her sister-in-law tried to console her. And soon after their
arrival, Vishnu’s body was delivered. His body was first taken to the men’s mourning room, where the head priest performed rituals and read prayers necessary to ready Vishnu’s soul for the afterlife. The women could hear the cries of the men and soon the same somber atmosphere was heard with wails and screams of the women. Devi and her grandmother were seated far in the corner, shunned by all the village women. Ruby saw that Devi kept looking at her daughter, hoping to see her face even for a minute. Devi’s heart sank for all the pain that Lakshmi would have to endure and the banishment from her family and her past life in the village.
Soon, in the late morning hours, a procession took Vishnu to a pyre that had been prepared for cremation and Ramdev, with a heavy heart lit the fire. The crackles of the fire could no longer be heard over the wails and prayers as his last rites were performed. At the end, his ashes would be given to Ramdev and Gayatri. Lakshmi could care less and did not protest the decision.
On the walk back to the house where food and refreshments had been set up for the mourners, Ruby held Lakshmi close and refused to leave her side. Devi had managed to get herself to the front to stand next to Lakshmi on the other side of her and held her tightly. Lakshmi felt relief feeling her mother’s touch. She could never tell Devi of the horrible realities of the life she had led in Kochi or worse, how Vishnu died with a sip of her special cardamom tea that he had once praised to be better than even his own mother’s. That would be too much for her.
Lakshmi also felt Rani’s absence. Rani had seen trailing behind the procession of mourners and made no attempt to come near her. Rani avoided Lakshmi as if she was some sort of plague and Lakshmi knew why, but still wished she had her best childhood friend by her side. Lakshmi knew she hadn’t been in close contact with her friend after her marriage, trying to hide
the reality of her lifestyle from her. Rani likely viewed that as a snub from Lakshmi, now a wealthy woman in Kochi and having no time for her poor friend. The harsher truth unbeknownst to Lakshmi, however, was that Rani’s relatives had stopped her from seeing Lakshmi and sadly, Rani had succumbed to the superstitions of the villagers who saw it as bad luck to associate with a young widow.
“She is just bad luck. She has destroyed poor Gayatri and her family and not only a year of marriage,” a villager muttered in disbelief.
“Pretty she may be, but they should have gone with a girl from their own caste. She is a devious wolf in sheep’s clothing. And not even pregnant after a whole year with his child. Unlucky like her mother,” another woman chipped in.
“Yes, charming and all but you should never marry from a lower caste. It is bad luck to mix between different castes. That’s why God put them at the bottom as punishment for their past life’s sins,” a woman whose daughter had been rejected as a potential bride for Vishnu proudly uttered, loudly enough for Gayatri to hear as well. She was secretly glad that her daughter hadn’t been in Lakshmi place, otherwise this shame would have been her daughter’s misery to bear.
~
Once everyone had gone, Mr. and Mrs. Iyer, Ruby, Dravid and Devi stayed behind. Gayatri refused to acknowledge Lakshmi’s existence. As far as she was concerned, Lakshmi should have burned at the pyre with her husband. Everyone sat there silently in the living room of the grand house in the small village on the outskirts of Idukki hills.
After some time, Mr. Iyer broke the silence and made a suggestion motivated by self-interest and on his wife’s insistence, “Mrs. Iyer and I were thinking that it would make sense that Lakshmi returns with us to Kochi.” Gayatri whose eyes were swollen and red from crying shot him a squinted look full of rage and he stopped dead in his tracks. Mrs. Iyer, however, the shrewd businesswoman ignored this reaction and went on, “Yes, there is no life for a widow here in this village. And it would be a waste for her to be shut off from the world in an ashram for all her life and at such a young age. We take full responsibility for her.”
All Gayatri could think was how the little snake had managed to convince the respectable Iyers into taking her back with them. “No,” Gayatri bellowed, “The little witch will stay at the ashram where she belongs. That is the punishment of a young widow. She killed my son. She killed him that devious bitch. That she-devil.” Lakshmi had anticipated to some extent the insults that she would have to endure and did not react as she sat there quietly absorbing her Maa ji’s abuse in. Ramdev ushered his wife to calm down and control herself. Her sister-in-law tried to hug her and quieten her down, but that only further angered Gayatri who shoved her aside.
Devi sat next to her daughter, hoping that the Iyers’ suggestion would hold some weight with Ramdev and perhaps the village elder. The ashram was no place for her young, beautiful girl. Devi and her husband had lived a life of hardship here in the small village and were ready to take whatever insults the villagers were to throw at them. They had done so before, and they could do it again, but they wouldn’t want such pain to be inflicted on their only daughter.
Grandmother was old too and over the years had hardened herself to that life of gossip and lies. In that moment, Devi
prayed to Goddess Lakshmi. “Please help my dear, sweet daughter. Please help her go back to Kochi and live a full life with the Iyers. She is so young, Goddess Lakshmi, to live the rest of her life like a prisoner. I know you will protect her as you have always done. She is our lucky charm.”
Ruby could see the love for Lakshmi that Devi had in her eyes and prayed for the same for her friend who was like the little sister she never had. Ruby had come from a small town in Punjab and coming back here reminded her of the close-minded thinking that she had escaped by moving to Kochi. It would be such a waste for Lakshmi to stay here. If it came to it, she was determined to kidnap Lakshmi from the ashram and take her back to Kochi. She could then help Lakshmi create a new identity and life for herself, much as she had done for herself.
Gayatri’s glare had moved on from Mr. Iyer to Lakshmi, as Gayatri thought, “She couldn’t just live with him. She wanted all his wealth. She’s probably shacking up with some man she found in Kochi. The snake.” Lakshmi could feel the coldness of Gayatri’s stare on her, a woman that had once been so warm and accepting of her despite her upbringing. “Only if his mother could see what a monster her son was,” Lakshmi quietly thought, “But she was blinded by her maternal love for the scum bag.”
The family sat around grieving quietly and the morning turned from the afternoon and afternoon to evening. Sleeping arrangements were prepared for the guests. Lakshmi, Ruby, Mrs. Iyer and Devi were to share a small spare room with two twin beds and the bathroom in the hallway. Dravid and Mr. Iyer were given a larger room with two double beds and an en-suite bathroom. The decision of Lakshmi’s fate was to be decided in the coming days when tensions cooled and the reality of Vishnu’s sudden passing set in.
~
The arrangement was awkward in the women’s room. The other women insisted that Mrs. Iyer sleep on her own bed. Ordinarily, they would have expected that Mr. and Mrs. Iyer would have been given the larger room, but having Dravid there complicated the sleeping arrangements. After some convincing from Devi and Ruby, Mrs. Iyer got herself into bed. The day had been very long and everyone was tired. Lakshmi had curled into a corner of the other bed and almost looked as though she had disappeared in it.
Devi looked at Ruby and thanked her with her palms pressed together in gratitude. “Aunty, no, no, please. She is like my little sister and you like my mother,” Ruby whispered. They hugged each other acknowledging the long road and pain ahead for their beloved Lakshmi.
“Please. We must not allow her to stay here, Ruby. We must get her back to Kochi. There is no life left here for her,” Devi said as she looked into Ruby’s eyes. Ruby nodded assuredly at Devi. She knew the truth about widows, and understood that it was always a worse life for them in small villages like this one. This village on the outskirts of Idukki hills.
The two women quietly whispered as they got to know one another a little bit more. Ruby swore to herself not to let slip on how life in Kochi had not been as glamorous for Lakshmi as Vishnu and his family had let on. “It is best for her to believe that their daughter will return to a life of luxury in Kochi if we are able to convince the family that Lakshmi comes back home to Kochi with Dravid and me,” Ruby thought to herself. Soon after this, both Ruby and Devi turned in and slept deeply after days of exhaustion.
~
It was in the early hours that Devi was up and getting ready. Mrs. Iyer was snoring loudly, while Lakshmi was also awake and sitting at the edge of the bed looking blankly at the wall ahead. She was lifeless. The stinging words of the villagers pierced through her heart, and the once warm and loving Maa ji was now cold and vengeful. “Goddess Lakshmi, help me escape. I cannot stay behind and live my life in that ashram. I have so much talent and am so young. Please grant me a way out of this small village,” Lakshmi prayed silently as she sat there staring at a spot on the wall. It looked as though she had lost further color in her cheeks overnight.
After Devi was done, Ruby quietly went into the bathroom outside their room to get ready and could hear the members of the household awaken. Cook was already in the kitchen whipping up breakfast to be served in the large living room / dining room. Ruby took further note of how Lakshmi’s in-laws were quite well-to-do, a stark contrast of the life Vishnu had been living in Kochi. The bathroom had a western style toilet and was immaculately clean. By the sink, there were the softest towels that Ruby had ever used and the soaps were scented with jasmine oils.
As she exited the bathroom, she admired the courtyard that was beautifully landscaped and had a handcrafted wooden bench and a delicately carved swing chair positioned in front of the Tulsi plant that sat in the center of the courtyard. A jasmine plant creeped up at the corner of the courtyard and was full of freshly blossoming flowers. The strong but not overpowering scent of the little white flowers permeated throughout the space. As she patted her hair on one end of the courtyard with the Egyptian cotton towel and took in the serenity of the space,
the peacefulness was interrupted with a loud argument that had erupted in the living/dining room space.
She froze in her place as she tried to eavesdrop on the conversation but she couldn’t quite make out what was happening. The other women had also heard the commotion and out came Devi, Mrs. Iyer and Lakshmi closely behind them. They looked at each other, fear taking over their faces as they all quickly made their way to the room where the loud voices of Ramdev and Gayatri could now be heard.
As they approached the room, they saw the village elder and Mr. Iyer sitting with a cup of cardamom tea. Mrs. Iyer glared at him hoping that by doing so she would be able to read his mind. He gulped and looked away from her gaze. Shiva and his wife had also appeared, wondering what all the noise was about.
“Shut up. Shut up,” Gayatri shouted to her husband. “I don’t want to hear another word about my son.”
“But Gayatri. He was working as a driver there. I didn’t tell you because I didn’t want you to be disappointed,” Ramdev tried to tell her in a more reasoned tone, conscious that their argument had brought the whole household into the room. “Mr. Iyer and Mrs. Iyer had helped…” Gayatri’s cold stare put an end to Ramdev’s explanation. Defeated, he sat down.
“You mean, you mean to say,” Gayatri stuttered, “My son was a driver for a sleazy hotel in Kochi. He was a driver like our servant, Vinod.” Her face was full of disgust and disappointment. “You mean there is no luxury apartment in Kochi on Marine Drive? You mean my son was lying to me? You were lying to me?” Seeing Lakshmi come into the room, her lips contorted in contempt as she saw her late son’s wife come in. She stormed out angrily and was unable to face Lakshmi who she had blamed for being a gold digger.
“I should have never interfered,” Mr. Iyer said. “I just thought it was time Gayatri knew the truth and that we could protect her from the disappointment if ever anyone found out the truth.” Mr. Iyer acted innocently. In reality, he and Mrs. Iyer had hatched a plan to make sure they could take their Kochi Queen back to the city and had to act quickly while everyone’s emotions were high. Mrs. Iyer had a knack for strategy and knew this would be the way.
Lakhsmi was too important for the success of the hotel for them to lose her to a stupid village ashram with outdated practices. Mrs. Iyer feigning innocence interrupted and began scolding Mr. Iyer, “How could you have done that? It wasn’t your place to say anything. I’m so sorry, Ramdev ji. We are sorry to both of you. To all of you.” Mrs. Iyer said as she begged forgiveness from Ramdev and then turned to everyone else in the room, bowing her head down, pretending she felt grave guilty.
“No, Mr. and Mrs. Iyer. Please. We are forever indebted to you both for protecting our reputation here in the village. Our son has passed, but he would have been a disgrace if he stayed here with his unruly ways. You saved us from shame when no one else could help us,” Ramdev said.
The village elder had been quiet all this time, observing the situation, but was not surprised at all by this truth. “I always knew that boy was no good. Flashing that apartment and the Hero Honda car,” he started off. Taking charged, he angrily instructed, “But this here needs to be contained in this house and these rooms. We cannot have any of this gossip leak out into the village. Do you know what it would do to my reputation?” The village elder’s angry voice echoed as he pounded the table with his palm. “An absolute disgrace. Good he’s dead and hasn’t brought any more shame to the family.” Everyone was shocked by the village elder’s harsh comment. He never did approve
of Vishnu, but in these circumstances, he had expressed more concern for his position as the village elder than he had for his own son’s feelings.
The village elder then looked squarely at Devi and asked her, “What do you and your family want to be quiet about all of this?” Devi was speechless as this was the first time she had heard a wink of the hardships that her daughter had suffered over the past year. She hadn’t prepared for this moment at all. She couldn’t have. But all of a sudden, she found the words flowing out of her mouth, “My husband and family doesn’t know about this and it’s best to leave it that way, but my daughter will not be confined to an ashram. She is much too young for a life of solitude. Let her return to Kochi with the Iyers and her friend, Ruby, and we will never speak of this again.” Devi was so proud of the voice that came out of her. So confident and decisive.
“Agreed. You are a very sensible woman, Devi. I can’t say the same for my own son and daughter-in-law. The pain that boy gave to our families. He was no good the day he was born. A devil born in our house. A devil. It’s very much a good thing that your daughter and him didn’t spawn any offspring,” the village elder stammered as he got up and left the room. After a few minutes, Ramdev left the room, and so did Shiva and his family.
The Iyers, Ruby, Lakshmi and Devi were left in the room. The Iyers couldn’t hold back and blurted, “We should make plans to go by tonight or tomorrow morning before anyone changes their minds or the village council convinces them to do so otherwise.”
“But what will everyone say. That they only came one day and they left the next?” Devi queried.
Ruby agreed with the Iyers and she didn’t much care for what the small-minded villagers would think. She had promised her friend a way out. “We should leave tonight. Say that we want
to spread his ashes in the Arabian Sea which his apartment overlooks,” Ruby suggested.
Dravid had been missing from the conversation, but through the window in the courtyard, Ruby glanced out in that very moment and she saw a drunk Dravid stumbling in while on the shoulder of Vinod, the driver. Ruby felt angry in that moment. She knew that when he left Kochi he always engaged in sordid activities, but now, while his best friend had just died and she was there with him as well. “Perhaps it was a tribute to that dog, Vishnu,” she thought to herself. “When I get back to Kochi, I’m leaving him once and for all. I deserve better.”
Lakshmi had been silent all this time. Pale from the stress of her impending imprisonment at the ashram, but color started slowly seeping back into her cheeks as the truth had finally come out. Her mother was in complete support of her as well. She also understood what this meant. She could never return to this small village on the outskirts of Idukki hills, but was glad to leave it behind forever. She was deeply saddened by the thought of the shame that her family would have to endure, but she also knew that some new gossip or fancy would come by soon enough and the chatter around their suffering would be replaced by another’s.
Lakshmi looked up in the sky and prayed to Goddess Lakshmi, “Guide me and give me strength to endure the coming days. You have provided an outlet. Please ensure that I will escape.” Tears rolled down her cheeks as she felt a small sense of relief.
As they dispersed from the room, Lakshmi tugged at Ruby and whispered in her ear. “Before we leave, come with me so that I can show you the Gangalee fields that I would lay down in and draw as a child.” Ruby looked down at her dear sweet sister, smiled and nodded. Ruby thought, “How bitter sweet.”
~
That afternoon, Lakshmi and Ruby slipped away from the grand house to the Gangalee fields. It was a bit more of a walk from this house than Lakshmi’s ancestral home, but the pilgrimage was worth it as it would be the last time Lakshmi would set foot here. The girls flopped down in a small clearing, surrounded by the vibrant colors of the Gangalee blossoms. Lakshmi closed her eyes as she absorbed the serenity of the fields.
“I want to capture this moment in my heart forever. I’ll keep this field of beautiful flowers in my mind when I miss my home and my family,” Lakshmi thought to herself as she breathed in the sweet musk that the flowers released in the humid air.
Ruby was equally amazed by the beauty of the flowers that were now in full bloom. These flowers had given Lakshmi her freedom. In looking at her little sister lying there, Ruby thought about the blessings she had received from their friendship. For the first time in her life, she could see that she deserved more than the life she had been living with Dravid, Vishnu and the Kochi Queen. She was ready to take a bold step that she hadn’t thought she deserved. When they got back to Kochi, she would leave Dravid and would live with Lakshmi. After that, she was going to apply to become an air hostess for that airline in Doha that had been advertising. She always had a yearning to see the world and she was no longer going to hold back on that dream.
After a good twenty minutes soaking up the beautiful fields, Ruby tapped on Lakshmi’s shoulder and told her they should head back. Begrudgingly, Lakshmi got up and scanned her surroundings one last time, capturing it in her memory. She bid farewell to the Gangalee blossoms. Lakshmi couldn’t wait to leave that evening. The Iyers had told the family that they would head out then and everything was okayed by the village elder.
“Good riddance” is what the village elder had said with a snarl on his face, remarking again on his grandson. Ramdev didn’t even attempt to interfere with these plans, knowing that their family’s reputation was at stake. Gayatri had been shut up in her room and refused to speak to anyone. Cook had made many attempts to bring her food or cardamom tea, but she refused and yelled at anyone who tried to come into her room.
The hours ticked on. Lakshmi was so nervous as she feared that her plans would be abruptly interrupted. “Please, please, Goddess Lakshmi, get me out of here before it’s too late,” Lakshmi prayed. The women all sat uncomfortably in the room designated for them as they heard the seconds hands on the wall clock tick by.
“Why are we waiting till the evening?” Dravid questioned, eager to leave. He hadn’t been able to face Ruby all day as he could feel the cold, icy energy from her towards him. He had had a moment where he felt he could do the honorable thing and make Ruby his life partner, but coming back to the village reminded him how he was not built to be one of those guys that “settled down”. Like his late friend, Vishnu, he was too immature for a long-term commitment with anyone at the moment. Vishnu had probably been the longest and most meaningful relationship he had ever had. That realization said enough about the type of person he was and he knew it would be a disservice to Ruby to promise anything more than what he already gave her.
Mrs. Iyer responded, “They want us to leave when there aren’t so many villagers out and about.” Mrs. Iyer was realizing the lack of logic in that statement. “But it wouldn’t make any difference. We should go, no?
Devi agreed and in a hushed tone replied, “I think you should leave sooner than later, in case anyone changes their minds.” She looked longingly at her daughter and closed her eyes,
cementing her sweet face in her memory. It was so difficult for her to not know if she’d ever or when she’d see her daughter again, but knew that she had to let her go so that Lakshmi could live a fuller and better life in Kochi than she would have ever had here. Lakshmi looked up at her mother and she ran to her, hugging her tightly, knowing the same. She promised herself that one day when things settled and her brother and her cousin-brother were old enough to live their lives independently, that she’d reunite with her mother and bring her to live in Kochi with her. Lakshmi hadn’t forgotten her dream of one day having that luxury apartment on Marine Drive and was intent on pursuing it at all odds.
Mr. Iyer looked at Mrs. Iyer and then at the group. They fumbled around their luggage, throwing in the last remaining items in, and gathered the suitcases and bags at the entrance of the room. “What about his ashes?” Ruby asked. Mr. Iyer signaled that he would go check with the village elder and Ramdev as the rest of them finished the packing.
About a half hour or so, Mr. Iyer came back and let the group know that they weren’t getting the ashes. “Gayatri ji has locked herself in the room with them. It’s your call, Lakshmi if you would like to stay for the ashes or not.” Lakshmi looked around and then at her mother, who came to her and gave her a long hug good-bye. “It’s your time to live, Lakshmi. This is the hardest thing for me to do in this life, but I cannot let you hold back. You must go now. Forget about his ashes. Why would you want that scumbag’s ashes strewn across the Arabian sea anyway? And don’t worry. The villagers will never stop talking. It is nothing new. Your mother is strong and we will get through this too.”
Lakshmi had received her mother’s blessings to do what she had already willed to do. She could no longer stay here. She felt suffocated in this grand house as it was and she felt so
much happier knowing that Vishnu’s ashes would stay behind, the expanse that had allowed her to breathe freedom and hope. She held her mother with such a tight embrace, once last time, at least for now. She begged her to seek forgiveness from her father, grandmother and siblings for not saying goodbye to them and for laying such a heavy burden at their feet. Her mother stepped back to free Lakshmi from their embrace and patted her back urging her to go now. And with that, Lakshmi, Ruby, Dravid and the Iyers quietly left the house, jumped into the car and left the small village on the outskirts of Idukki hills, back to the life in Kochi.
~
Lakshmi could not wait till to be out of the village limits and as the car inched forward, she slowly felt relief and energy return. She left her mother with the excruciating pain of longing for her, knowing that it would be many years before they would, if ever, be together again. Her mother would have the burden of knowing the lies that her daughter had to endure over the past year and no one would ever know the truth. The Iyers had chosen not to tell her mother that she was the revered Kochi Queen and she was glad for that because her mother would not have let her go back to Kochi in that case.
She was grateful for this opportunity and how things were working out. As she sat there in the car, she thanked Goddess Lakshmi for being so kind and giving her mother the understanding that most in the village would not have had. She was glad her father hadn’t been there as he would have made the situation very difficult for her.
As she sat at the back of the car and thought about being back in her village she had called home for years before, Lakshmi was deeply hurt that Rani hadn’t sought her out or consoled her.
Their friendship had come to an abrupt end as a result of Vishnu and his subsequent death. Lakshmi knew that she was partially responsible for their friendship’s end because she had kept her distance from Rani all these months. Rani knew her too well and so Lakshmi avoided Rani’s calls and slowly they went from calls once every two weeks, to once every three, then every month, to less than that to almost never. Rani knew Lakshmi too well and could always catch her out in a lie, and Lakshmi didn’t want the truth about her life in Kochi exposed to the villagers, especially to her family. It was a sacrifice she was glad she had made now. It would have otherwise spread like wild fire and her family and her would have been disgraced. She was unsure of what truths Maa ji and Papa ji would spread, but either way her reputation would have suffered.
There is no place for a widow in a small village in the Idukki Hills, but only the life of a pariah. She had been branded unlucky, even though it was no fault of her own.  Yes, she had poisoned that oaf, but no one but Ruby knew that, and yet they vilified her for his untimely death.
Lakshmi could see that they were driving on the regional highway now. She sighed deeply and Ruby turned to her and smiled. Ruby was so happy to be leaving that backward village and excited for the life ahead with her dear friend. Once they got back to Kochi, Ruby had vowed to herself that she would break it off with Dravid and start following her dreams, despite the barriers she knew she would face. If she couldn’t make it in Tollywood, she would at least find a way to venture out into the world. That Mideast airline had interviews coming up in the next couple of weeks and she was going to go for it. They were desperate for staff given the shortages, lower pay, and the demands of the work. She had a chance now and although the beauty requirements were quite strict, she had seen all sorts
of women make it through lately. She knew she had a fighting chance if she just tried for it.
~
In memory of Vishnu, Dravid sentimentally stopped at the open-air restaurant that they had taken Lakshmi that first time for biryani. As food was being ordered, Lakshmi looked around thinking, “This once was the mark of wealth for the young, naïve village girl I was.” It was not at all a luxurious eatery as Vishnu had tooted and how innocently she fell into his magic and deception. He had unashamedly fooled her, her family, his own family (except for his proud father) and the entire village, coming there in Mr. Iyer’s car pretending to be some big shot. He was shameless and deserved to die. It made sense why he did not protest his mother’s choice, a lowly village girl. Lakshmi didn’t mind eating at this spot, finally feeling her appetite return. She dug into the biryani and remembered how delicious it had tasted the first time she had it. It tasted so much better and deeply flavorful today. As she sat there, slowly eating the biryani, she looked around the people at her table.
Although she knew the Iyers were motivated by their business interests that had been enhanced by her performances as “Gangalee”, she was grateful that they were in her life, giving her that opportunity. She looked at Dravid. He was scum, but harmless in comparison to Vishnu. He had his vices but had never raised his voice or laid a hand at Ruby or her. She never could figure out his dedication to Vishnu, who was a horrible friend, drunk and abusive most all the time.
Above all, there was Ruby. She felt Ruby was Goddess Lakshmi disguised as her big sister on earth. Ruby had been her savior and had always protected her, even against that awful monster. Despite the circumstances and her becoming a widow, Ruby still
chose to stand by her side and gave her the support she needed to get through this difficult time. Ruby had only known Lakshmi a year, unlike Rani who had known her for a lifetime, but yet, it was Ruby who was by her side now.
And soon after some chit chat and their bellies full, the crew headed back on the road towards Kochi, far away from that village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills. It was dark now, but Lakshmi could see the city lights twinkle as they approached its limits and pure excitement returned.
~
Back in her own apartment, Lakshmi plopped down on that sofa thinking back to the first time she came to Kochi with Vishnu, Dravid and then meeting Ruby. Now, the apartment was sparkling clean, a big contrast to when she had initially set foot in it. It was meant to be a lavish, welcoming marital home overlooking the Arabian Sea, but instead, was a dump nestled in the poor part of the city.
Ruby sat down beside her on the sofa. They were both exhausted, but as they sat there, they both felt energized at the thought of the freedom Vishnu’s death had afforded them. Ruby decided that she had to kick out Dravid and that she would no longer prolong submitting her application to the airline for fear of rejection.
Lakshmi smiled victoriously at her friend. She had broken the cycle that had cursed generations of women before her. She had nothing to lose now and could reinvent herself however she wanted to, now she was in the big city. First Kochi Queen, then Queen of Marine Drive. She had set her sights high and vowed to continue pursuing her dream of owning a 3BKH on Marine Drive, just had she had been promised as that young, innocent
girl with no high school education. Every morning, she would look out onto the Arabian Sea and on her balcony breathe in the calming breeze from the capricious waters.
After some time of sitting in silence, Lakshmi got up to make her special cardamom tea. She looked over at the windowsill in the kitchen and saw that the Gangalee seeds she had planted had started to sprout, which brought her immense joy. “New beginnings, Goddess Lakshmi,” she thought to herself and smiled. She caught Ruby’s worried face and shook her head, then smiled reassuringly. The two women let out a laugh as they basked in their new freedom.
~
Epilogue
"A woman is like a tea bag—you never know how strong she is until she gets in hot water."
~ Eleanor Roosevelt
Lakshmi and Ruby’s friendship blossomed and the two young women each pursued and achieved their dreams. Lakshmi was forever cagey about trusting others outside of Ruby after how Vishnu had treated her, but also how Kalki and Sita acted in their own selfish endeavors. Although Kalki and Sita were motivated by circumstances, they lost out in the end and were kicked out from the Kochi Queen Hotel and blacklisted by the Iyers. Last anyone heard, they ended up as hookers, earning just enough to scrape by on the streets.
Lakshmi did achieve her dream of owning a 3BKH overlooking the Arabian Sea. She had been discovered by a film director who happened by the Kochi Queen Hotel one evening, and the Iyers encouraged her to go ahead to pursue her career in Tollywood. Lakshmi was always grateful for the Iyers’ kindness, even
though they too had been motivated by their own self-interests. She became a famous Tollywood actress, but always returned to her new roots in Kochi. As her star rose, many of her movies were filmed there to accommodate the acclaimed actress.
Sadly, Lakshmi’s mother passed a year after Lakshmi left the small village on the outskirts of Idukki hills, which devastated Lakshmi. Unbeknownst to anyone, she had ovarian cancer that hadn’t been caught in time. Ultimately, it was her mother who had been the catalyst of Lakshmi’s success, encouraging her daughter to leave behind the mundane life of their small village where generations of women like Devi had worked at those cardamom estates. “Goddess Lakshmi, please keep my mother safe and near you always,” Lakshmi prayed every day as she watered her Gangalee blossoms, now planted across her wrap around balcony of her luxury penthouse. A year after her mother passed, her grandmother did too from old age and melancholy having lost her daughter-in-law and knowing the hardships her granddaughter had quietly endured.
Ruby was equally content. She found the courage to leave Dravid, who opted for a life as a non-committal, perpetual drunk. He drank away the grief of losing his best friend and then being rejected by Ruby. His lifestyle landed him on the streets. The Iyers had tried to help him, but after some time, but their ties with him when he no longer seemed to want to sober up and change the old ways he had shared with his old friend, Vishnu.
Although Ruby felt badly, she had to move on for herself. Shortly after they returned, Ruby kicked him out of the apartment and Lakshmi came to live with her. Ruby applied to the airline and after interviewing, she landed a position as ground staff. She slowly worked her way up into cabin crew through her persistence and good nature, which opened up opportunities for
her to fly to new destinations she had never heard of and would have never seen if she hadn’t taken a chance on herself.
When Ruby would return to her homebase in Kochi, she always brought gifts for Lakshmi. Gifts from Doha, Lisbon, Paris, Seoul, Cape Town and more. Having been Lakshmi’s confidant and close friend all these years, Ruby always had a room at that 3BKH of Lakshmi’s ready for her during her layovers. She never had to stay at one of those dingy room shares provided to airline staff.
One evening, she told Lakshmi how she had bumped into Chef Vijaya in Doha. He had gotten a position as a sous chef at one of the top Indian restaurants at a prestigious hotel in Doha and couldn’t have been happier even though his life after the incident had been difficult at first. He was shocked at the callousness of the Iyers, who had been so quick to kick him out without hearing his side of the story and taking Vishnu’s story at face value. Ultimately, he was glad that he had gotten that necessary push, or really the punch to move on. That punch helped him realize his dream of living abroad and he had now settled down with a lovely Tamil lady he had met there and the two had a young son together. He did wonder how Vishnu had passed so suddenly the day after, but Ruby didn’t encourage much discussion around that incident. Regardless, Chef Vijaya, like Lakshmi and Ruby, was glad he was dead and that both ladies had found success in their lives. In fact, their success was all thanks to Vishnu.
Lakshmi never did marry again or have any children of her own. With the passing of her mother and grandmother, Lakshmi permanently shut that chapter of her life of being that girl from that small village on the outskirts of the Idukki hills. Lakshmi had died there and the Gangalee girl had been reborn in Kochi.
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com