OceanofPDF.com

The Cruelest Season
A Pride and Prejudice Variation
Sophia Grey
Blue Flowers Press
OceanofPDF.com

Copyright © 2022 by Sophia Grey
All rights reserved.
No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review.
OceanofPDF.com

Contents
1.
Elizabeth
2.
Elizabeth
3.
Elizabeth
4.
Elizabeth
5.
Elizabeth
6.
Elizabeth
7.
Darcy
8.
Elizabeth
9.
Darcy
10.
Elizabeth
11.
Darcy
12.
Elizabeth
13.
Darcy
14.
Elizabeth
15.
Darcy
16.
Elizabeth
17.
Darcy
18.
Elizabeth
19.
Darcy
20.
Elizabeth
21.
Darcy
22.
Elizabeth
23.
Darcy
24.
Darcy
25.
Elizabeth
Epilogue ~ Elizabeth
Also from Blue Flowers Press
OceanofPDF.com

1
Elizabeth
T
he familiar business of Meryton’s streets should have been soothing, but Elizabeth Bennet was on edge for no reason other than the fact that her younger sisters would not stop talking.
Their constant chatter did not always wear on her nerves, but over the past fortnight there had been no variation in their subject of choice.
Officers.
Specifically the arrival of new officers to the Meryton militia garrison.
In the past few months, Elizabeth’s patience for many things had waned considerably. The Meryton Assembly should have been the highlight of the autumn season. But, thanks to the arrival of Mr. Charles Bingley and his retinue, it had been anything but.
Well, for her at least.
Jane had made an admirable, and yet somehow expected, achievement in managing to secure the tentative affections of the newly arrived gentleman, but Elizabeth did not trust the motives of his sisters.
Mrs. Hurst seemed to merely tolerate the ‘country lifestyle,’ as she called it. But Miss Caroline Bingley was filled with open disdain for anything and everything about life in Hertfordshire. Elizabeth had only been able to stomach one teatime at Netherfield Park before Jane had absolved her of accompanying her to any subsequent engagements.
“Mama has said that I may have a new gown if there is to be a regimental ball,” Lydia exclaimed suddenly.
Kitty gasped in horror. “But that is not
fair
. There is always a regimental ball when the new officers arrive!” Her younger sister tugged on Elizabeth’s arm. “Oh, Lizzy, that is not fair at all. I have not had a new gown since last year, how is Lydia permitted—”
Elizabeth sighed heavily. “I shall have to speak to Mama,” Elizabeth said. “But I am quite certain that Papa has not agreed to any such expense. I, myself, have not had a new gown since last Christmas, and I do not think Papa will see a regimental ball as an excuse for new finery.”
Lydia frowned. “But, Lizzy! Jane has had a new gown—”
“She has, indeed,” Elizabeth said shortly. “But Jane is soon to be engaged, and she will have need of many new gowns before long.”
Lydia could not argue with that, though Elizabeth suspected that she would try before long. Lydia’s capacity for allowing others to take joy in things that did not interest her was very slim.
Elizabeth loved all of her sisters dearly.
That was what she tried to remind herself of as she took a deep breath.
“Come along,” she said briskly. “We have a list of items that Mama requires, and we must not be late in returning home—” Elizabeth looked up at the late autumn sky and frowned. “The clouds do not look kindly.”
“I did not bring a parasol,” Kitty cried. “If it should rain—”
“Then we shall have to hurry,” Elizabeth said. She smiled brightly at her sisters and wrapped her arms around their waists. “Take heart, my dears. There is much to be grateful for.”
“If I had an engagement upon the horizon I might be inclined to believe you,” Kitty grumbled.
“I shall be engaged before you,” Lydia said.
“Stop it,” Elizabeth chided them. “This is not the time to be petty. Mama will need all of our help if Jane is to be engaged before Christmas. We must do everything we can to support her.”
“But why?” Lydia whined. “What help might she need?”
“For us to convince Mr. Bingley that there are no other young ladies in all of England that he might wish to call
sister
,” Elizabeth replied.
“A funny thing to consider,” Kitty laughed. “Do gentlemen really consider such things?”
Elizabeth was almost certain that they did not give such things any thought whatsoever, but it was something she was entirely too concerned with. Mr. Bingley’s sisters were unfortunately not the sort that she would wish for Jane… But that could not be helped.
His friends were also not what she might have approved of—
But that could not be helped, either.
“Lizzy, will you dance at the regimental ball?”
Lydia’s question sounded sharper than it should have.
“Why would she not?” Kitty demanded.
“Well, she did not dance at the Assembly—”
“There were not enough gentlemen as you well know!” Kitty’s glare was fierce and she pulled away from Elizabeth’s grasp to walk ahead.
“That did not stop
me
from dancing,” Lydia retorted as she, too, pulled away and marched up to Kitty.
“That is because you would not leave the dance floor!” Kitty’s cheeks were pink, but it seemed as though she had forgotten the fact that she had not allowed some of the other young ladies to take a turn with the available gentlemen, either.
Elizabeth allowed them to bicker for a few more moments before she took them both by the hand to silence their argument.
“Come now,” she said. “This accomplishes nothing. There will be plenty of officers to dance with at the regimental ball. And we shall
all
dance.”
Elizabeth was not certain how much she believed her own words.
As much as she tried not to think about what had happened at the Meryton assembly, the events of that evening had been almost impossible to push from her mind.
There would be no possibility of Mr. Darcy appearing at the regimental ball.
Surely, not.
She would not have to think of him again.
Jane had mentioned his presence at Netherfield Park, and his aversion to dancing and frivolity. Perhaps she had said it to calm Elizabeth’s nerves.
“Yes,” Kitty laughed. “The officers will be arriving in town and we shall decide on our dancing partners while they are still upon their horses!”
Elizabeth took a deep breath and tried to smile. Her sisters would always be silly, but one day they would see how ridiculous such cares were.
Elizabeth managed to pull her sisters toward the shops as they laughed.
“Why must we worry about Jane,” Lydia asked again as they entered Mrs. Gisbourn’s dress shop. The ribbons that Mrs. Bennet had requested were waiting for them, but Elizabeth had been given permission to select more to use for the re-hemming of her own gown.
“We must worry about Jane, and her engagement, because if she becomes Mrs. Bingley, then we shall not have to worry about Mr. Collins turning us out into the street when Papa dies,” Kitty answered brightly.
Elizabeth choked on her breath as Lydia’s eyes widened. She had not expected Kitty to have such a grasp of their situation.
“Is that not correct, Lizzy?”
Kitty blinked at her.
“It— It is,” Elizabeth replied.
“He would not dare be so cruel,” Lydia whispered.
“He may very well, indeed,” Elizabeth said. “So now you understand why Mama is so determined to ensure that this engagement is seen through.”
Lydia nodded, suddenly serious.
Kitty was oblivious to their exchange, busy sorting through the ribbons that she wished to purchase for her own gown.
Elizabeth pushed Lydia gently toward the boxes of ribbons. If he noticed, Mr. Bennet would complain a little at the extra expense, but it would be easily smoothed over. It was clear enough that they all deserved a little treat every now and again, especially when it was very obvious that their mother would, very willingly, forget her other daughters in favor of Jane’s advancement.
It was not Jane’s fault, of course, and Elizabeth knew that she must make an effort to keep the other girls from resenting their elder sister.
Mrs. Gisbourn kept a stern eye upon Kitty and Lydia as they giggled and jostled against each other over the box of ribbons, but Elizabeth was pleased to see that they had taken her words to heart and the ever-present competition between them had eased somewhat. Elizabeth had no doubt that it would return with full force soon enough, but for now, it was lovely to see them behaving as sisters ought.
“That green will look terrible,” Lydia exclaimed. “It will only make your hair look dull— Unless that is what you wish…”
Elizabeth let out a breath and rolled her eyes heavenward.
So much for peace.
“Lizzy, you must tell Lydia not to be so horrid! I like green, and I should like to wear it!”
“I did not say you could not wear it,” Lydia protested. “Only that it will not look well on you. I am saving you from embarrassment. Unless you wish to look like a blotchy cabbage—”
Kitty’s strangled cry of outrage was the telltale beginning of a full-scale war and Elizabeth turned away from the bolts of fabric to intervene.
“Now, girls. This is not the place for quarrels. Mrs. Gisbourn is the expert in these matters.” She turned to the shopkeeper and forced herself to smile as though nothing was amiss. “Mrs. Gisbourn, what might you suggest for Kitty?”
The woman’s smile was as thin as her lips. “Green is not your color, my dear,” she said. “Perhaps the raspberry pink?”
Kitty’s cheeks were flushed as she nodded.
“But I always wear pink,” she stammered.
“If you will not take Mrs. Gisbourn’s advice, perhaps I shall,” Lydia said. “I had a mind to ask Lizzy to help me to make some ribbon roses for my sleeves, and that color would look very sweet upon my gown.”
She pulled the ribbon out of Kitty’s hands and held it against her arm.
“Yes, I do think so. I shall take the raspberry,” Lydia said brightly.
Kitty’s mouth dropped open and Elizabeth resisted the urge to pluck the ribbon from Lydia’s fingers and march them both out of the shop.
“Kitty, why not the midnight blue?” Elizabeth asked. “You have a blue gown that you have hardly ever worn and it looks very well on you.”
“But it will look black under the candlelight,” Kitty murmured. “Would that not be—”
“Very striking, indeed,” Mrs. Gisbourn said.
Lydia looked down at the raspberry ribbon in her hands and at the midnight blue spool that Kitty cradled. Elizabeth wished silently that Lydia would keep her mouth shut. She had clearly made her decision based on what would hurt Kitty at that moment, and now that another alternative had been offered—
Kitty should be allowed a victory, even if it were a small one.
“Your ribbon roses will be lovely,” Elizabeth said, but Lydia did not need any reassurance.
“They will be,” she sniffed. “Better than a boring hem and altered sleeves.”
Kitty’s chin lifted slightly, but she said nothing and handed the spool of midnight blue ribbon to Mrs. Gisbourn.
Lydia’s eyes fell to the ribbons once more. “And what will you choose for yourself, Lizzy?”
“I had not made a decision yet,” Elizabeth murmured.
“You always choose blue,” Kitty said. “What about yellow, or orange?”
Elizabeth rubbed her finger over a vibrant orange velvet ribbon and smiled. “Perhaps I
shall
choose something out of the ordinary…”
“That will look very well against your hair,” Kitty murmured. “Perhaps Jane will lend you her pearl-headed pins…”
Elizabeth nodded. “Perhaps.”
She selected the ribbon and handed it to Mrs. Gisbourn who seemed exhausted by the whole procedure, and as their purchases were wrapped up, Elizabeth felt a sense of relief as she tucked the package into the basket she had brought with her.
“Oh, Lizzy!” Kitty cried suddenly.
“What is it now?” Elizabeth muttered, but as she looked up to where her sisters stood at the shop window, she realized why Kitty had sounded so melancholy.
Rain.
Of course.
“Come along,” Elizabeth said briskly. “We must walk quickly before the road to Longbourn becomes a mud puddle.”
Lydia groaned loudly and then her expression brightened and she dashed for the shop door.
“Lydia, whatever—”
“Hurry, Lizzy,” Lydia cried. “It is Mr. Denny! He shall see us safely home to Longbourn!”
Kitty laughed and ran after Lydia out into the rain, and Elizabeth let out a furious breath as she followed her eager sisters. It was no wonder that there was always a hint of danger and embarrassment that followed Lydia everywhere she went—she was far too prone to acts of impulsive selfishness that were of no use to anyone but herself, and even that was questionable.
“Lydia,” Elizabeth huffed as the shop door slammed shut behind her. She tugged at her bonnet to pull it back into place and was grateful that she had thought to bring a heavier shawl. The rain was not torrential, but it would be uncomfortable and cold in a short amount of time.
“We cannot delay,” she called out.
“But Lizzy,” Lydia protested. “It is Mr. Denny! Do you not see?”
Elizabeth’s eyes narrowed as she beheld the officers who stood outside the White Horse Inn. “I do, indeed,” she muttered.
“We shall ask them to escort us back to Longbourn,” Lydia announced. “We shall be able to ride their horses and keep our dresses out of the mud and our shoes dry!”
“Oh, yes, please say that we might,” Kitty murmured.
It seemed cruel to deny it and Elizabeth finally relented. “You may ask, but do not be rude about it,” she said as Lydia dashed toward the gentlemen. “Lydia!”
Elizabeth took a deep breath and tightened her grip on her basket as she followed Lydia and Kitty toward the inn.
The officer’s smile was bright as he caught sight of Lydia.
Mr. Denny was a jovial young man who doted upon Lydia in as innocent a fashion as one might expect—and Elizabeth viewed their relationship as more of an elder brother to a younger sister. Affectionate, yet reserved. Lydia did not seem to mind that he flirted with other young ladies, and he did not seem to mind that Lydia was outrageously forward with any young man who came close enough to make eye contact.
But Lydia was a silly girl, and she was not yet sixteen. Perhaps the circumstances would be different once she had reached her eighteenth birthday and had left some of her childish attitudes behind…
“Come along, Lizzy! The officers will see us home! Mr. Denny has promised!”
Kitty squealed with laughter as Mr. Tanner, another officer who had been in Meryton for the better part of a year, helped her into the saddle of a gray horse that stood nearby. Kitty’s cheeks were pink, and her eyes sparkled with laughter as the young man secured her foot into the stirrup.
Mr. Denny helped Lydia to climb into the saddle of a dark chestnut mare. “And there is one for you, too, Lizzy,” Lydia cried.
“I can walk perfectly fine on my own,” Elizabeth said.
“Now, Miss Bennet, with this rain? I would not hear of it.”
The gentleman’s voice was low and comforting, and Elizabeth felt heat creep up her neck as an officer she had not seen before bowed low. “If you will do me the honor? My gelding is quite amenable to walking in the rain.”
“I am grateful,” Elizabeth said. “Mr—”
“That is Mr. Wickham,” Lydia crowed. “He has just arrived in Meryton from somewhere in… Essex? I cannot recall, he said it so quickly!”
“Kympton,” Mr. Wickham said with a smile. His blue eyes were pale and captivating, and Elizabeth found it easy to return his smile.
“I confess I do not know where that is,” Elizabeth said.
“It is some miles away,” Mr. Wickham said. “And the less said about it, the better. A dreary place to be sure, especially when compared to the beauty of Hertfordshire.”
“Indeed,” Elizabeth murmured.
Laughter broke out among the other officers, and Elizabeth’s face grew warmer as Mr. Wickham helped her to climb into the saddle. The gelding stood very still and Elizabeth settled herself in the saddle with more confidence than she had initially felt.
“We are a merry party, indeed,” Lydia cried. “Come now, Mr. Denny, to Longbourn!”
“We have been commanded,” Mr. Wickham laughed.
“It would seem so,” Elizabeth replied.
The gentleman tugged on the reins and Elizabeth held tight to the saddle as he led the gelding toward the road to follow Lydia, Kitty, and the other two officers.
Mrs. Bennet would demand to know every detail of how this strange circumstance had come to pass… and Elizabeth would have to use the journey to prepare for an interrogation.
OceanofPDF.com

2
Elizabeth
I
t was not a hardship to make a journey with a handsome officer by one’s side, and Mr. Wickham seemed determined to make the journey seem short by distracting her with conversation. Most astoundingly, he seemed uninterested in talking about himself, but rather asked
her
questions about her life in Meryton and her thoughts on everything from the local militia, to the society of Hertfordshire and her opinions on matters that Elizabeth thought mostly reserved for men.
Did she have an opinion on local politics? Did she frequent salons? Or travel to London very often?
Overwhelmed, and very flattered, by his attentions, Elizabeth found herself sharing more than she ever had in the past—within reason, of course.
By the time they reached Longbourn, the light rain had become a downpour, and Kitty and Lydia shrieked with laughter as their bonnets and shawls became soaked.
Thoroughly drenched, Elizabeth accepted Mr. Wickham’s help to dismount and stood shivering in front of the door as the other two officers mounted their horses once more.
“Will you not come in for tea?” Elizabeth asked. “To say thank you for your generosity—”
“Indeed, I think not, Miss Bennet,” Mr. Wickham said. His smile was disarming and Elizabeth tried to ignore the heat that crept into her cheeks once more. “The others are already well on their way back to Meryton— Will I see you at the ball?”
Elizabeth nodded. “Indeed, you shall,” she replied.
“Will you save me a dance?”
“Perhaps.”
“It is enough of a promise for me,” the gentleman laughed. He jumped up into the saddle and spurred his horse to catch up with the other two men and Elizabeth stood in the rain to watch them canter up the road and disappear from sight.
“Lizzy! You must come inside at once!”
Mrs. Bennet’s outraged shout echoed in the courtyard and Elizabeth tugged her shawl more tightly around her shoulders and rushed into the house. They might have escaped the mud, but their dresses and shoes were soaked through and would have to dry—and they would all need hot baths to keep away the threat of a chill.
At the very least, she had brought back the ribbons her mother had ordered, she could not be scolded for that.
She ventured into the house and handed the package of ribbons to Mrs. Hill who frowned deeply to see how wet she was. “You shall go upstairs at once and I shall send up hot water for a bath,” she fussed. “Your sisters are already upstairs. Perhaps you can convince Lydia to take a bath when you are finished!”
“Will she not take one?”
Mrs. Hill shook her head. “She has refused and demands to sit by the fire instead.”
Elizabeth let out a heavy sigh and untied the ribbon on her soaking bonnet to pull it from her hair. “She is so very stubborn.”
“That she is,” Mrs. Hill agreed. “Now, get yourself upstairs! I shall send Flora up shortly.”
“Thank you,” Elizabeth murmured as she climbed the stairs toward the bedchamber she shared with Jane. Lydia and Kitty’s argument could be heard in the corridor and Elizabeth shook her head as she reached the landing.
Jane leaned against the doorframe of their room, a smile upon her face.
“I know Mr. Denny and Mr. Tanner,” she began. “But who was the officer who escorted you back to Longbourn?”
Elizabeth laughed. “Watching from the windows?”
“Of course,” Jane exclaimed.
“That was Mr. George Wickham, newly arrived from Kympton…”
“Where is that?”
“I daresay I still do not know.”
“Did you not ask him?”
“I did not have the chance,” Elizabeth protested. “He was most insistent upon knowing everything about
me
… and did not speak of himself at all!”
Jane pulled her into their bedchamber and set about pulling the washtub out from behind its screen as Elizabeth laid another log on the fire and began to peel off her soaking wet dress and chemise.
Shivering and teeth chattering, she stood in front of the fire, wrapped in a blanket until Flora came with buckets of hot water to fill the tub.
“Could you please check on Kitty and Lydia and see that they go down to the parlor to sit in front of the fire,” Elizabeth asked.
Flora murmured her agreement and left the room as Jane tapped a few drops of rose oil into the bath water.
“Get in,” Jane commanded. “Surely, you would not wish to have to explain to Mr. Wickham that you had to stay home from the regimental ball because of a chill.”
“Jane… It is nothing. Mr. Wickham was kind enough to accompany us back to Longbourn. Nothing more.”
Jane’s eyebrow rose. “Then why can you not stop smiling?”
“I—”
A knowing smile spread across her sister’s face and Elizabeth scowled as she dropped the blanket to the floor, stepped into the bath, and sank down into the hot water.
“Will you persist in teasing me now?”
“Only as much as you did about my early affection for Mr. Bingley,” Jane laughed as she sank into a chair by the fire.
“I did not—”
“Indeed,” Jane said. “And I do apologize for any insult I might have given you for my insistence that you try to change your opinion of Mr. Darcy.”
“Do not mention him again,” Elizabeth begged. “It is enough that you have tormented me with reports on what he is doing while you are at Netherfield Park. I will not be prevailed upon to hold him in any esteem whatsoever.”
“Your mind is made up, then?”
“It is. Most assuredly.”
“In favor of this officer?”
Elizabeth flicked water at her sister. “Perhaps.”
Jane let out a half-hearted shriek. “But you have only just become acquainted with him!”
“Even so,” Elizabeth said. “I feel that we have forged a stronger affinity than anything I shall ever feel for Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy.”
“And Mr. Wickham does not have ten thousand a year to recommend him.”
Elizabeth laughed. “Indeed, we might assume that he does not.”
“I never thought you would be happy as the wife of a soldier—”
Elizabeth splashed water at her sister again, this time a larger wave slopped over the edge of the tub and hit Jane’s feet.
“Lizzy!”
“I have only just become acquainted with him,” Elizabeth said primly. “I shall thank you to abandon any discussion of our nuptials until after I have danced with him at least once.”
“I do agree,” Jane laughed. “If he is a terrible dancer you should spurn him immediately.”
“And I shall,” Elizabeth sniffed.
“You are far too cruel,” Jane sighed. She leaned back in her chair and looked up at the ceiling. “I do think that I should have forgiven Mr. Bingley if he were a poor dancer.”
“I do think you might forgive Mr. Bingley almost anything,” Elizabeth said with a smile. “He is very fortunate that you are so agreeable. He could not ask for a better wife.”
“You are far too kind to say so,” Jane said, but her cheeks were pink and Elizabeth’s heart was full to see her sister so happy.
“Mama believes that he will speak to Papa before Christmastide,” Jane said. “Do you believe it might be so?”
“I believe,” Elizabeth said carefully, “that our dear Mama would always wish for a winter wedding to be certain that all of Hertfordshire would be present to celebrate and share in her triumph.”
“Lizzy,” Jane gasped. “That is not fair!”
“Is it not? I would dearly love to see you married by Twelfth Night! It would be the grandest of affairs and the happiest of seasons. No one could begrudge Mama such joy.”
“Then you are being serious?”
“Of course,” Elizabeth assured her. “I could never tease you about such a thing. I have never seen two people who are better suited for one another, and that is the truth.”
It was the truth. It had only been a few months since the Meryton assembly and Jane had been to Netherfield Park for tea or supper on so many occasions that Elizabeth had almost lost count.
But Mr. Bingley had not yet come to Longbourn.
It was a detail that had not been lost on anyone… and though Jane had dismissed any questions about the matter, Elizabeth did not know how she felt about it.
“Lizzy—”
Kitty stood in the doorway, a blanket wrapped around her shoulders. Her teeth still chattered.
“May I have the bath when you are finished?”
Elizabeth’s irritation at the events of the day faded in an instant. “Of course,” she said at once. “I am quite warm enough and the water is still hot.”
Jane jumped up to offer Elizabeth some dry linen to wrap around herself as she stepped out of the bath and Kitty stumbled into the room gratefully.
“Had Lydia gone down to the parlor?”
Kitty nodded. “She wanted to tell Mama everything about meeting Mr. Denny in town. She was very excited about the prospect of the new officers and felt that Mama should know everything.”
Elizabeth gritted her teeth. That meant their mother would know everything Lydia had to tell about Mr. Wickham, and the time he had spent speaking to Elizabeth.
“Get in the tub,” Jane said and Elizabeth stepped behind the privacy screen to dry herself and pull a chemise that Jane had brought for her over her head.
“Mama will not be angry with us, will she?”
“For what? Being caught in a rainstorm?” Jane laughed.
“No— I— I do not know, I always expect Mama to be cross with me.”
Elizabeth felt some sympathy for Kitty, it did always seem that Mrs. Bennet was cross with Kitty. But she was very silly on a great many occasions that called for more tact or sense… But that was her way. She followed Lydia too closely on too many things, and she was far too trusting, which often led her astray.
“She will not be cross with you,” Elizabeth said as she pulled her sleeping robe over her chemise. “I shall make certain of that. It was Lydia’s idea to ask the officers to assist us, and Mama would certainly have been angrier if we had come home with mud splashed up to our waists and ruined shoes.”
Kitty giggled. “And Mrs. Hill would be ever so upset…”
“Indeed she would have been!”
Elizabeth laughed and came out from behind the screen. “Do not worry about Mama,” she said. “She will be content with the ribbons we have brought, and cheered by the fact that Mr. Tanner showed you such affection.”
Kitty’s cheeks reddened.
“He is very sweet,” she murmured.
“I am certain you shall dance with him at the regimental ball,” Elizabeth said. “But do you know anything about him?”
“Of course,” Kitty spluttered. “He has four elder sisters, and one brother—”
“Goodness,” Jane exclaimed. “Almost as blessed as we!”
“But his elder brother will inherit the family estate so he decided to take a commission, instead of joining the clergy.”
“Very respectable, indeed,” Elizabeth said.
“He is quite enthusiastic about his career,” Kitty continued breathlessly. “He means to stay in Brighton after they are deployed—I should very much like to see Brighton—”
“Oh, no,” Elizabeth said. “Mama would never agree to such a thing.”
“I know,” Kitty said. “But all the same—”
“And did he ask anything about you?” Elizabeth asked.
“Me?”
Confusion was written plainly across her sister’s face and Elizabeth crouched down beside the tub.
“You,” she said. “Did he ask you about what you liked and disliked? Does he know that you prefer almond biscuits to almost anything else that might be served for tea?”
Kitty glanced at Jane for support and then back to Elizabeth. “N— No.”
Elizabeth smiled. “Perhaps you shall tell him at the ball.”
“Why— Why would I do that?”
“Because if the gentleman has an interest in you, then he should show it in other ways that do not include talking of nothing but himself.”
“Oh—”
“Lizzy—”
Jane’s tone held a warning, and Elizabeth smiled in response, kissed Kitty’s cheek, and stood. “It is no matter, of course,” she assured her younger sister. “Gentlemen may do as they like… is that not so?”
“Lizzy… Perhaps you should dress and go down to the parlor. I will see to Kitty.”
“Of course,” Elizabeth replied. “Mama will wish to hear all of the news from town, and, if I am not mistaken, Lydia will have an order for a hundred ribbon roses to be completed before the ball.”
“Surely not so many,” Jane murmured.
Elizabeth rolled her eyes and Kitty giggled. “No, but it will
feel
like a hundred.”
“Hush,” Jane scolded her, trying not to smile. “Get dressed. Mama will be calling for you before long.”
Elizabeth smiled and did as she was told, though the thought of facing her mother was a daunting prospect.
Mrs. Bennet had been happily distracted by Mr. Bingley’s arrival in Hertfordshire, but Mr. Darcy’s treatment of her at the Meryton assembly had brought Elizabeth’s future under her mother’s scrutiny once more.
“Shall I say that you will be down soon?” Elizabeth asked as she bent to look in the vanity mirror. She slid a hairpin into her curls and tucked a wayward strand behind her ear before looking expectantly at her elder sister.
“Of course,” Jane sighed. “As soon as Kitty is ready we shall come down.”
“Or when the bath water is cold,” Kitty muttered.
“You both know that Mama will not be happy unless we are all in the parlor,” Elizabeth said. “Poor Mary has been trapped there all day.”
“She has her small revenge,” Jane said. “She received a new collection of sheet music from Lucas Lodge today.”
Elizabeth smothered a laugh. “I am so glad that Mariah is putting her tutor’s efforts to good use.”
“She has promised to send copies of all of her sheet music to Mary,” Kitty said brightly. “Mariah does not enjoy playing nearly as much as she does transcribing it…” Kitty’s eyes widened. “But you must not say anything to Mama.”
“Of course we shall say nothing,” Jane assured her and Elizabeth nodded her agreement. Mary deserved more sheet music, and their father would not pay for it. So, another arrangement had to be made. Mariah’s generosity did her credit.
“Nothing at all,” Elizabeth said. “But do, please, hurry downstairs. I do not know how long I shall be able to manage to keep my smile in place. I am certain that Mama would much rather talk about your impending engagement.”
“Hush,” Jne muttered, but Elizabth only smiled and departed their company.
Mrs. Bennet would want a trustworthy account of what had happened in Meryton that day, and Elizabeth was the only one who would be able to deliver such a report.
She was as ready as she would ever be.
OceanofPDF.com

3
Elizabeth
“M
ama, it was nothing,” Elizabeth sighed. “Lydia has already told you what happened in great detail, I am certain of that.”
“She has, indeed,” Mrs. Bennet cried. “And I wish to know what might have happened to make you believe that it was the best course of action?”
Her mother’s shrill tone was, as always, one of Elizabeth’s least favorite sounds. All eyes at the table were turned to her and Elizabeth’s shoulders straightened.
“It was raining, Mama,” Elizabeth said gently. “I thought that you would prefer that we returned home without the accompaniment of several pounds of mud upon our gowns and three pairs of ruined shoes.”
“You should have checked the almanac,” Mrs. Bennet fumed. She was, of course, not really angry. The exclamations and concern were merely for show. Had they brought the officers in for tea, their mother’s reaction might have been different. But the circumstance had not lent itself to such pleasantries.
“I did,” Elizabeth sighed. “It has been very temperamental of late. A prediction of rain, but not a cloud in the sky… and then, very suddenly, a downpour!”
Mrs. Bennet frowned, but Elizabeth chose to ignore it.
“You must admit, Mama, it was very fortunate to have three officers to escort us home,” she continued. “How wonderful would it be to have two more marriages to celebrate at Christmastide?”
Lydia laughed loudly, while Kitty’s cheeks pinkened as she looked down at her plate.
“Do not be ridiculous,” Mrs. Bennet snapped, but she did so with a quick smile, her ire easily abated with thoughts of more of her daughters finding husbands in quick succession.
Elizabeth knew that she was concerned for the future, as she well should be. It was not an easy thing to navigate the waters of inheritance with a house full of daughters. They must rely on themselves—and a prudent match—to see them through.
Jane’s eventual engagement to Mr. Bingley would provide Mrs. Bennet with the security
she
required for when her husband was gone from the world—but the other girls…
“Well, you must all plan to give those officers the first dance at the regimental ball,” Mrs. Bennet huffed. “To express your favor and gratitude.”
“Of course, Mama,” Kitty murmured.
“I shall dance with whomever I like,” Lydia exclaimed.
“As long as you dance with Mr. Denny
first
,” Mrs. Bennet said firmly. “I should not like you to have a flippant reputation, Lydia. There are far too many young ladies in Hertfordshire for you to behave as such without a fear of… losing your place!”
“Losing my place,” Lydia snorted. “Mama, that will never happen. I am far too well loved to be set aside by one of the borning young ladies who populate this place!”
Mrs. Bennet’s brow furrowed, but she did not argue with her youngest daughter. It was a well known fact that Lydia was a popular dance partner at every event, but Elizabeth often wondered how long that would last once she chose a husband—or what might happen if the scandal Lydia flirted with made the decision for her.
But Lydia was young and foolish, and such things would soon pass by the wayside. Perhaps once Jane were married Lydia would begin to think of her own future.
It was possible.
Doubtful… but still possible.
“Well, there is a great deal of work to be done before the ball,” Mrs. Bennet huffed. “Kitty, your pink gown will have to be re-hemmed, and I do not know
why
you have brought home such a dark blue ribbon!”
“Mrs. Guilford suggested it,” Kitty replied softly.
“That woman would say anything to make a sale,” Mrs. Bennet huffed.
“And I will not be wearing pink,” Kitty said somewhat more firmly than before. “Lizzy said that she will help me—”
“But Lizzy will be too busy making ribbon roses for my gown,” Lydia interjected.
Elizabeth set down her fork. “I shall
help
you with the ribbon roses,” she said. “You will not make me your servant for the sake of a few roses that you know very well how to make yourself.”
Lydia grumbled and pushed a forkful of potatoes into her mouth.
Jane had observed everything silently and Elizabeth wondered what her sister was thinking. The regimental ball would not be of any interest to her now that Mr. Bingley’s attentions had been directed toward her.
“I shall be happy to assist Kitty,” Jane said with a smile. “The regimental ball is ever so exciting, is it not?”
“Especially with all of the new officers in town,” Lydia agreed readily. Her grin was bright as she leaned forward and placed her elbows upon the table. “Do you think I might be able to dance with
all
of them?”
“I daresay you might be able to,” Jane said. “You do have so much… energy.”
“I find balls invigorating,” Lydia laughed. “While the other ladies are sitting down to rest, I shall happily dance all the more!”
“Will you be coming to the regimental ball,” Kitty asked excitedly.
“Why would Jane come,” Lydia laughed. “She has Mr. Bingley to dance with whenever she likes.”
“Hush,” Mrs. Bennet said. “Your chatter has given me a headache. Finish your supper and then come into the parlor. We have a great deal of work to do, and there is very little time!”
The meal was completed in a relative silence that Elizabeth was grateful for. Before that day she had not quite decided whether or not she would attend the regimental ball, but after meeting Mr. Wickham, she had somewhat changed her mind.
The orange ribbons she had chosen would, indeed, look striking in her hair, and no other young lady would dare deviate from the expected palette of pink, purple, or blue.
Mr. Wickham was charming enough; he could be diverting company.
I
n the parlor, Jane sat beside Elizabeth upon the couch.  While Elizabeth  worked at Lydia’s ribbon roses, Jane removed the old hems from the gown Kitty had chosen for the ball.
Elizabeth had promised to make two sections of roses and leaves to be applied to the bodice, but only if Lydia did the rest of the work. Her youngest sister’s stitches were large and a bit haphazard, but she would have to learn sometime. Her elder sisters would not always be around to do every bit of stitching that was required.
“Will you come to tea at Netherfield Park this week?” Jane murmured.
Elizabeth let out a heavy sigh. “Perhaps. As long as Mr. Darcy will not be present.”
“Gentlemen are rarely present at ladies’ teas,” Jane said with a smile. “And, besides, how bad could he really be? With a friend like Mr. Bingley—”
“Perhaps Mr. Bingley has poor judgment when it comes to making friends.”
Elizabeth regretted her words the instant they left her mouth. “Jane, I did not mean—”
“I know you did not,” Jane replied. “You are still angry with him. He was very rude, and has not taken the opportunity to apologize. You have every right to be cross with him, but perhaps you might make an effort to give him a chance to redeem himself? Everyone who meets you has no choice but to adore you.”
“Miss Bingley does not agree,” Elizabeth murmured.
“Then you should come to tea at Netherfield Park more often to better make her acquaintance,” Jane said. “If I am to be engaged to her brother, she will have to learn to love my sister.”
“As I shall be your constant companion after your marriage, I should think so,” Elizabeth said. “Perhaps she would change her attitude if she knew that I would always be within earshot?”
Jane pressed the back of her hand against her mouth to smother her laughter. “Elizabeth Anne Bennet, is that a threat?”
Elizabeth concentrated on her stitching. “Perhaps,” she replied lightly.
“Say you will come to tea this week,” Jane pressed. She leaned against Elizabeth’s shoulder. “It will not be a hardship. And there will be lemon tarts.”
Elizabeth frowned. Lemon tarts were her weakness and Jane knew it well.
“Fine.”
“You will come?”
Elizabeth nudged her sister back. “I shall think on it.”
Jane’s smile was one of victory as she tore a strip of ribbon from the hem of Kitty’s gown and dropped it into the basket of scraps at her feet.
“That is good enough for me.”
“Let us see if we shall survive the regimental ball with our reputation intact,” Elizabeth said. “Then I shall see about turning Miss Bingley into an ally instead of a viper ready to strike.”
“She is not like that,” Jane murmured and then grimaced as she saw the expression upon Elizabeth’s face. “At least, I do not think she is.”
“We can only hope.”
Jane was silent and Elizabeth worried that she had been too harsh in her assessment—but there was something about Miss Caroline Bingley that did not sit well with her, though she could not determine what it might be.
Perhaps she was being too sensitive. But could the same thought be applied to Mr. Darcy and his rudeness?
OceanofPDF.com

4
Elizabeth
“A
re you certain that you wish to stay home?”
It was the fourth time she had asked that question and Jane laughed and shook her head, just as she had three times before.
They were hiding from the rest of the house in their bedchamber to prepare for the regimental ball, and with every moment that ticked by, Elizabeth worried that she should have tried harder to find a reason to stay behind.
“Mama does not believe that I should not need to tire myself for no reason,” she said. “Besides, there are more than enough young ladies in Hertfordshire who would not be wasting the officers’ time with a dance that could not yield anything more than a diversion.”
“No reason?” Elizabeth frowned. “Must every dance end in a proposal? Is that how we must go through life now?”
“I am certain that is not what Mama meant by it,” Jane protested.
“Oh, I am quite certain that is precisely what she
did
mean,” Elizabeth said. She smiled in what she hoped was a reassuring manner and laid a hand upon Jane’s arm. “It is not as though we are innocent of our limited options,” she said. “It is not a simple thing to find a husband in the country.”
“No, indeed,” Jane murmured. “You know I cannot argue with you.”
“I did not expect a fight,” Elizabeth said. “Mama knows it well. When we were Kitty and Lydia’s age she did not mind that we danced with anyone who would show an interest—but it is different now.”
“It is,” Jane sighed. “Do you not think Mama will… temper some of her expectations when Mr. Bingley proposes?”
“I do hope so,” Elizabeth said. “Else I fear for the poor gentlemen who come under her scrutiny. I feel as though Kitty will do as she is told, but Mama will certainly have trouble with Lydia.”
“And Mary.”
Elizabeth bit back a chuckle. Poor Mary.
“I am almost certain that dear Mary will be permitted to choose her own path. Mama might complain, but I know she may feel some relief to know that you are well taken care of.”
Jane’s smile was gentle, but the way her cheeks flushed was enough to make Elizabeth feel somewhat encouraged. Love was a strange emotion, and one that she’d had very little experience with beyond what she had read or admired from history…
Perhaps Jane had found the truest expression of this elusive emotion.
She, herself, had often declared that she would never enter into any kind of arrangement without the presence of the very deepest love.
But did she even know what that might look like?
“You are far too serious for an evening such as this,” Jane said with a smile. “Come, Mama will be calling for you soon enough, and Lydia will begin to complain about missing the first dances.”
“Her favorite complaint,” Elizabeth said. “Although it is often her fault that we are late to arrive.”
Jane took hold of Elizabeth’s hand and pulled her up from her seat on the bed. “Then let us make certain that does not happen.”
Jane kissed her cheek and pushed her toward the door. “The orange ribbon—I did not expect to like it so much.”
Elizabeth touched the ribbons that Jane had helped to secure in her hair and smiled. She had grown more fond of the color as the hours progressed. “Neither did it. It was Kitty’s suggestion.”
“And she will never let you hear the end of it,” Jane laughed.
The noise in the foyer could only mean that their departure was imminent, and Elizabeth swallowed down the familiar twinge of nervousness that clawed at her chest. It was the same before every ball and social event.
She ignored it every time, but this was her first time venturing into society since Mr. Darcy’s insults—and she had not anticipated how keenly those thoughtless words would take root in her mind. Anyone else would have pretended they had not heard anything.
But she could not.
It was her own fault.
As she descended the stairs with Jane at her back, the whole scenario played over in her mind.
“She is tolerable; but not handsome enough to tempt me; and I am in no humor to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting your time with me.”
“Wasting your time, indeed,” Elizabeth muttered.
“What was that, Lizzy?”
“Nothing,” Elizabeth blurted out as her cheeks warmed.
Had she been speaking aloud?
“Your cheeks are already flushed! We shall have to hope that the carriage ride does not turn your complexion into a mottled mess by the time we reach the garrison hall!”
Mrs. Bennet’s hands were upon her hips as her eldest daughters descended the stairs.
“It is nothing, Mama,” Elizabeth said. “It was too warm in our bedchamber.”
“Yes, indeed, I have often complained about how stuffy it is in your bedchamber. You use a great deal of firewood in the winter!”
It was a baseless accusation, of course. They used no more firewood than any of the other girls, and Kitty always liked to light the fire in the room she shared with Lydia well into the spring, but any small complaint seemed to be worth their mother’s time these days.
“Of course, Mama,” Jane murmured.
“The carriage is waiting,” Mrs. Bennet said briskly as she plucked her shawl from Mr. Hill’s arm and draped it over her shoulders. Their mother always seemed immune to the cold, and Elizabeth envied her somewhat as she took her own shawl and wrapped it around her shoulders.
The night was already cold, and Elizabeth sucked in a breath as she stepped out into the night and walked toward the carriage. She was not looking forward to the winter months. The almanac had threatened more snow than she had seen since she was a child, and Elizabeth hoped that it would be inaccurate for once—but that seemed unlikely.
Kitty was already seated in the carriage and Elizabeth slid into the seat beside her.
“Where is Lydia?”
Kitty rolled her eyes. “Fussing with her hair. It had already been styled and pinned, but she could not abide it. She said it would be too awkward for dancing.”
“Of course.”
Lydia was not happy unless her hair was unpinned and flowing over her shoulders.
Highly improper.
But there was little argument that could be used against her and, more often than not, Mrs. Bennet allowed her youngest daughter to do as she liked if only for the sake of her nerves.
“Do you think they will play the dances we know,” Kitty wondered. “I should be ever so embarrassed—”
“Lady Lucas has assured Mama that the musicians are the same ones who come to Meryton for every assembly. You shall not have to worry about such things.”
Kitty’s answering smile was relieved. “Good. I should feel very ridiculous to not know the steps. We dance so much—”
Elizabeth took a deep breath to prepare herself for whatever deluge of thoughts was about to spill forth, but Kitty’s words were interrupted as Lydia launched herself into the carriage and flung herself into the seat across from them.
“When we arrive you should allow me to go in first,” she said abruptly. “Then I shall be able to choose my partner without worrying that I shall upset you.”
Kitty’s mouth dropped open.
“Lydia—” Elizabeth was ready to scold her youngest sister, but Lydia cut her off.
“If you do not know who might be willing to dance, then you cannot be offended when I choose the best of them,” she said brightly. “I do believe that is very fair. Besides, I would not have you ruin one young man’s opinion of all Bennet sisters with your awkward dancing.”
“I am not awkward,” Kitty protested.
Lydia made a face. “You are and you know it.”
“I cannot abide this cruelty,” Elizabeth snapped. “You will cease this behavior at once. You are
not
in competition.”
“But we are,” Lydia said without missing a beat. “Mama says it all the time.”
Elizaneth could not very well argue with that. Their mother’s obsession with marriage would drive them all mad.
“Mama, you must hurry,” Lydia cried. “We shall miss the first dances! We are always late!”
Elizabeth shook her head and tried not to laugh as Mrs. Bennet rushed out to the carriage and climbed inside.
The door slammed shut and the carriage lurched forward.
“Will you dance with Mr. Wickham tonight,” Kitty asked.
“She will, indeed,” Mrs. Bennet snapped before Elizabeth could answer. “You shall all dance your first dances with the gentleman who escorted you back to Longbourn, and I shall hear no arguments!”
Lydia’s scowl was evident, even in the darkness of the carriage and Elizabeth wondered what she was thinking. Lydia and Mr. Denny were good friends, nothing more, and it was clear enough that Lydia did not wish to waste her dance card upon a gentleman who was nothing more than a friend. Although Elizabeth was almost certain that the young officer was well on his way to being in love with her sister, it would be a fool’s errand to try to push them together. One that would surely end in misery for one, or both, parties.
T
he carriage ride was blissfully short, but Mrs. Bennet filled every inch of the space with her thoughts on the regimental ball, Colonel Forster and his recent marriage, and the arrival of the new officers—not to mention her own wistful recollections of a time when she, too, had an affinity for young men in red jackets and shining boots.
It was a story that Elizabeth was not overly familiar with, but since the youngest Bennet girls had shown an interest in the officers, their mother was suddenly an expert in all things military— Well, not entirely, but she did not seem to be lacking in comments and speculation about the young men arriving in Meryton.
Ones who arrived without horses were to be avoided as being not worth their time, but the ones
with
a steed, fine leather boots, and an aversion to the White Horse Inn were surely to be serious about their careers and would be best suited to support a wife when the time came.
“No gamblers, no drinkers… Keep a careful watch upon them, my dears, and you shall see the measure of a man in short order.”
“Are we to spy on the officers, Mama?” Elizabeth asked mildly.
“Certainly not,” Mrs. Bennet exclaimed. “But watchful… that is all that may be required. How a gentleman behaves in public is a clear indicator of how he might behave in private. A man who causes a fuss in general company will not hesitate to be in an uproar in the privacy of his own home.”
“Very wise, Mama,” Kitty said.
Elizabeth tried to think of a time when their mother had ever been wise, and could not think of one, but it did not mean that her words did not have merit.
For some reason, Mr. Darcy’s behavior at the Meryton assembly crept back into her mind. If that was how a gentleman behaved in public, she could not be convinced that he was not completely rude in private and away from the scrutiny of polite society.
But why could she not let go of thoughts of the gentleman who had slighted her? Mr. Wickham and his charming smile and manners awaited her at the ball.
That
should
have been her focus.
The carriage pulled into the courtyard in front of the garrison hall where the ball was to be held. Colonel Forster, despite requests from his new wife, had never bothered to hold the event in any other location, and Elizabeth suspected it was only due to the fact that the older gentleman would not have far to travel to find his bed after the ball ended.
It was an image that always made her chuckle just a little. The Colonel had a reputation for opening every regimental ball with gusto, staying far too late, and leaving on unsteady legs just as the sun was coming up over the hills. However, this year he would have the newly acquired Mrs. Forster to contend with.
Adrianna Forster was of a similar age to Elizabeth and Jane, but she had not yet been introduced to much of Hertfordshire society. Perhaps she would have an opportunity to introduce herself—
The carriage door opened and Lydia launched herself out of the carriage so as to be the first of them to rush up the steps.
Kitty let out an anguished cry and followed upon her sister’s heels.
“Now, Lizzy,” Mrs. Bennet said. “I expect that you will keep an eye on the younger girls. Jane is not with us tonight, and she is usually who I would depend upon to keep Lydia under control. Do let me know if anything happens.”
Elizabeth was somewhat surprised by her mother’s words. Jane had never said a thing about such a task, but it was certainly necessary.
“Of course, Mama,” Elizabeth replied.
“When Jane is married it will fall to you to look after the younger girls until they are well matched,” Mrs. Bennet continued as though Elizabeth had not answered her. “It will be a miracle if Kitty manages to find a husband before Lydia…”
Elizabeth was not certain whether such a thing was on Lydia’s mind, but the competition of being the first to be engaged would be too tempting for her to pass by.
“I shall do my best,” Elizabeth said.
“Indeed you shall,” Mrs. Bennet said with a smile. A footman waited at the carriage door to help her out, and Mrs. Bennet laid her hand upon his as Elizabeth took a deep breath and smoothed down her skirts. Her gown was older, but it was not as though anyone would notice, or comment, as many of the young ladies in Hertfordshire had a similar circumstance to hers.
Charlotte Lucas and her family might have been in a different situation, but even Sir William’s new title did not bring them much farther ahead of any other family save the Bingleys, of course.
“Come along, Lizzy!”
Her mother’s voice was muffled by the carriage and Elizabeth knew that she should follow, but she was frozen in place.
“Miss?”
The footman’s face appeared in the doorway. “Are you quite well?”
“I— I am fine,” she managed.
Another masculine voice greeted the footman and Elizabeth sat up a little straighter. She should have left the carriage already, her mother would be furious—but the voice was familiar.
“Miss Bennet?” The footman’s face disappeared and Mr. Wickham stepped into view.
“Mr. Wickham! I— I am pleased to see you.”
“And I you,” he said with a smile that made Elizabeth’s heart beat a little faster in her chest.
“Will you come to the ball?” he asked.
“Yes,” she said. “I was… I was just trying to prepare myself.”
He extended his hand and Elizabeth forced herself to move. She placed her fingers upon Mr. Wickham’s upturned palm and allowed him to assist her to step down onto the packed dirt of the courtyard.
Music echoed through the night air and Elizabeth pulled her shawl around her shoulders a little tighter against the chill wind. Mr. Wickham’s grip on her fingers seemed to release almost reluctantly and Elizabeth smiled up at him. The torches that had been set into the lawn gave off a warm glow that illuminated the gentleman’s face in a pleasing way. He was handsome, in a different and more angular sense than Mr. Darcy—
But why was she comparing the two men?
In the short time she had known him, Mr. Wickham had already shown her more respect and interest than the other gentleman could pretend to…
Stop it.
“Shall we go in?” Elizabeth blurted out. “My sisters will already be dancing, and I shall require a dance card so I might write your name upon it.”
“I would be honored,” Mr. Wickham said as he offered his arm.
Elizabeth laid her hand upon it and they walked together up the steps toward the open doors of the garrison hall.
“How are you enjoying your time in Meryton?” Elizabeth asked.
“Very well, I thank you,” Mr. Wickham replied. “There are some aspects that are more… diverting than others.”
Elizabeth’s cheeks warmed, but she said nothing.
He was, most certainly, flirting with her.
As they entered the garrison hall, Elizabeth was stunned to see that there had been some attempt made at the decor—the Colonel had never put any effort into the hall beyond a cursory cleaning and polishing of the dance floor before the ball began. But now there were candles and lanterns lit, flower arrangements, and swags of velvet material had been hung in strategic places to hide the plain painted boards.
Clearly, Mrs. Forster had exerted her influence and Elizabeth could not help but feel a sense of pride in what the young woman had accomplished. The Colonel was notoriously difficult to manage, but she seemed to have done an admirable job with limited resources.
“Miss Bennet?”
“It is quite lovely,” she said. “Do you not agree?”
Mr. Wickham glanced around the room, his brow raised, and then nodded. “Of course. Lovely.”
Elizabeth could not be certain if he actually thought as much, but it was not as though she could expect an officer of the militia to take an interest in decor or flower arrangements.
“Is it not always decorated as such?” he asked.
The question caught her by surprise.
“No, indeed it is not,” she said. “The Colonel is a very… practical sort of gentleman.”
“That I can well understand.” Mr. Wickham pointed to one of the flower arrangements. “It is wonderful to see such blooms paired together, is it not. I do believe that those lilies are out of season. Mrs. Forster would have spent a few farthings to acquire them.”
Elizabeth laughed, more from surprise than anything. She had never heard a gentleman speak in such a way. Especially in regards to flowers.
“How—”
“Do not look at me so strangely, Miss Bennet,” he said with a smile that matched the mischievous light in his eyes. “I am not like most of my fellow officers. I was raised by a gentleman with a country estate.”
“Oh, indeed,” she replied. “How lofty and grand. And what should bring you to take up a commission in His Majesty’s Militia?”
“Ah, that is a story on its own,” he replied.
“I should like to hear it,” Elizabeth urged, but the gentleman at her side shook his head.
“Tonight is not the time for such sad topics,” he said. “Tonight, I should like to hear all about Miss Elizabeth Bennet and what makes her smile.”
“Oh—” Elizabeth could not have stopped the blush that raced into her cheeks as Mr. Wickham bowed and offered his arm once more.
“Would you like to dance, or have a glass of punch?”
“Dancing, I think,” Elizabeth blurted out. Anything to cool her face and give her something to focus on that did not include the deep blue of Mr. Wickham’s eyes or the way his hair curled over the collar of his regimental jacket.
It was a good thing that Jane was not present, she would have noticed Elizabeth’s distraction immediately.
Speaking of distraction—
Where was Lydia?
“Is something the matter?” he asked, and Elizabeth was flattered once more that he had noticed her inattention.
“It is my youngest sister,” she said as she scanned the crowd. “I cannot see her.”
“There,” he said immediately and pointed toward the dance floor. At once, Elizabeth heard Lydia’s loud laughter as she spun on the arm of Mr. Denny and she let out a sigh of relief.
“I am to keep an eye upon her whereabouts this evening,” Elizabeth confessed. “She can be a handful.”
“I can imagine that all of the Bennet ladies are difficult in their own way,” Mr. Wickham said.
“That is very possible,” Elizabeth replied.
“I shall assist you in keeping watch over your charge,” he said. “But first, I would very much enjoy a dance.”
“As would I,” Elizabeth said. “It is so refreshing to find a gentleman who is both fond of dancing and knows how to speak to a young lady without a hint of arrogance.”
She did not know why she had said such a thing, and it sounded ridiculous as soon as the words left her lips, but she could not take them back.
Mr. Wickham’s eyebrow rose slightly. “A very specific complement,” he said.
“It is… I do apologize, it is only—”
He waited for her to finish her sentence and Elizabeth was struck again by the depth of his gaze, and the interest he showed in her. Any other gentleman—
“I had rather a poor experience at the last Meryton assembly,” she blurted out. “A gentleman was exceedingly rude to me.”
“Unforgivable,” Mr. Wickham said with a shake of his head. “A gentleman, if he
is
one, should know better.”
“Thank you,” Elizabeth murmured.
“And, if I may ask, who was this gentleman? Is he here this evening? I would have stern words for him—”
“Oh, no,” Elizabeth protested. “I would not expect that Mr. Darcy would never come to a regimental ball.”
Mr. Wickham’s expression changed in an instant. “Darcy—”
“Yes,” Elizabeth said. “A Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy. He is here with his friend, Mr. Bingley. They are staying at Netherfield Park— Why, Mr. Wickham, do you know of him?”
“No, no, indeed,” he replied, but it took a moment for his charming smile to return. Elizabeth was not certain that she believed him, but it did not seem to be a topic on which he would wish to elaborate. This was neither the time, nor the place, for such a conversation.
“Well, if he is not present, then I shall seek to right the wrongs of his slight. We shall dance all evening and by the time you arrive home, you will have forgotten all about him.”
Elizabeth smiled and laid her hand upon Mr. Wickham’s arm. “I do believe you are correct,” she said. “I would very much like to dance.”
Mr. Wickham seemed distracted, but only for a moment. He left her side only once, to take one of the dance cards that were offered for young ladies. He brought it back to Elizabeth and presented it to her with great ceremony, which only made her laugh when she saw that his name was inscribed in every available space.
“You will cause a scandal, Mr. Wickham,” she laughed.
The dark blue of his eyes was like the sea at Brighton and she was swept up in them.
“For you, it will be well worth it,” he murmured as he fastened the card’s ribbon around her wrist. “Now anyone who wishes to dance with you will know that I was here first to stake my claim.”
“Am I a country to be conquered,” Elizabeth challenged him. She was teasing, but the gentleman’s chin rose slightly.
“I am an officer in the King’s militia, Miss Bennet,” he said. “Would you expect any less?”
Elizabeth laughed. “I shall have to sue for peace.”
“Perhaps after we have danced,” Mr. Wickham said with a smile.
Elizabeth’s heart pounded in her chest as he led her to the dance floor. He was charming. And handsome, to be sure, but there was something about the gentleman that was decidedly… unknowable, and she was not certain if she trusted it.
There was one thing, however, of which she
was
certain… Mr. George Wickham was unlike any officer she had ever met.
OceanofPDF.com

5
Elizabeth
T
he early morning light seemed far too oppressive, and Elizabeth rolled over and pulled her pillow over her head.
“You came home
very
late last night,” Jane admonished. “Mama will not rise from her bed for hours yet, if at all!”
Elizabeth clutched her pillow and peeked up at her sister. “Was it very late?”
“It was,” Jane laughed and she turned to tug on Elizabeth’s coverlet to expose her shoulders to the cool air. A fire crackled in the grate, but it was not enough to warm the room just yet.
Elizabeth struggled to keep hold of the blankets and then finally gave up. She sat up and held her pillow to her chest as Jane fetched her robe.
“You did miss a lovely evening,” Elizabeth sighed.
“I am certain of it. Lydia and Kitty will have endless stories to tell me over breakfast. But I am eager to hear of
your
evening! It has been quite some time since you accused any ball of being ‘lovely,’ especially a regimental ball!”
“It is Mrs. Forster’s doing,” Elizabeth conceded. “The decor was… well, there was
actually
decor! Flowers and swags of velvet… I really should speak to her, or perhaps invite her for tea.”
“A wonderful idea,” Jane said. “We are always in need of friends, are we not?”
“Indeed. I feel as though she has been forgotten in our small society, and I should like to change that.”
“Aside from flowers, what else?”
Jane held out her sister’s robe, which Elizabeth took with a grateful sigh.
“You danced, of course,” Jane prompted.
“I did, indeed, and my aching legs are proof of it,” Elizabeth moaned as she drew her robe around her shoulders and drew her knees up to her chest.
“And whom did you dance with? And do not say, ‘officers!’”
Elizabeth laughed. “I did, indeed, dance with officers,” she said. “But if you will look in my valise, you will find my dance card, and it will give you all the answers that you seek!”
Intrigued, Jane did as she was told, and opened the valise that Elizabeth had tossed upon the vanity when she had come home only a few hours past.
As Jane withdrew the card, Elizabeth prepared herself for her sister’s shock. Jane’s eyes widened as she read the names, her lips moving silently.
“George Wickham— for every dance! Lizzy, this is a scandal!”
“I did not partner with him for
every
dance,” Elizabeth protested. “I did dance with Mr. Denny, and Mr. Tanner… and several others as well. But Mr. Wickham was… never far from my thoughts.”
“Or your side, I would wager,” Jane said mildly.
“If it were Mr. Bingley on
your
dance card, I would not be so suspicious,” Elizabeth protested.
“Would you not?”
Elizabeth shook her head. “No, indeed, for I have seen you together and I know that his affections are focused upon you. Mr. Wickham wrote his name upon the card himself—to tease me.”
“I see…”
Elizabeth grimaced. “You are making it sound very nefarious, indeed,” she said.
“I am only concerned for you, Lizzy. This gentleman is very insistent in making his affection for you very clear. And very public. Does it not seem… sudden? He has only just arrived in Meryton and you have only spoken once before.”
“And you had only met Mr. Bingley at the assembly, and his affection for you is very clear,” Elizabeth snapped. She regretted her reaction immediately as Jane’s eyebrow lifted at the sharpness of her tone, but it did not stop the words that came out of her mouth. “If Mr. Wickham were not an officer, but a wealthy man with five thousand a year, or even eight thousand a year, would anyone bat an eye? Or would they applaud my fortune at securing such a match in such a short amount of time?”
“I would not presume to know,” Jane said.
Elizabeth gritted her teeth and looked down at her bare feet. The room felt colder now.
“Jane, I did not mean—”
“I know,” she replied. “Get dressed and come down to breakfast, I will send washing water up for you.”
“Thank you,” Elizabeth murmured, but Jane was already at the door, and left the room without a backward glance.
Elizabeth groaned and fell back on the bed.
She had been wrong to speak out of frustration, but there had to be some merit to her thoughts—if Mr. Wickham were a wealthy man, no one would ask any questions. They would simply congratulate her on making such an advantageous match. Just as they did Jane, and the match was not even formally made. She had been to Netherfield Park for tea three times since the Meryton Assembly, and would go again in the coming days. There would be dinner invitations, another ball—and no one would say anything against their union.
But Mr. Wickham was an officer with, what Elizabeth could only imagine, a troubled past that led him to take up a military commission.
Elizabeth was determined to find out what circumstance could lead a gentleman who had, very obviously, been educated and gently brought up to his current situation.
And why had his reaction to the mention of Mr. Darcy been so strange? Did he know the other man? What was his opinion of him?
She groaned and pressed her face into her pillow.
Too many questions.
A knock at the door made Elizabeth sit up straight, and she jumped off the bed to open it. Mrs. Hill’s newest kitchen helper struggled with a pail of steaming water, and Elizabeth helped her to bring it into the room and pour it into the wash basin.
“Miss Jane is waiting for you in the breakfast room,” the girl said. “She asked me to tell you to come down at once.”
“Of course she did,” Elizabeth sighed. “Thank you.”
“And she also wished to remind you that you will be going to take tea at Netherfield Park today.”
“Today?” The girl looked panicked, and Elizabeth smiled. “Please tell my sister that I shall dress appropriately.”
Still nervous, the girl nodded and fled the room, leaving Elizabeth to pace and curse herself for agreeing to such a thing. Perhaps Mr. Darcy would not be there and it would not be a hardship—but Caroline Bingley’s presence was unavoidable, and she would, undoubtedly, make
everything
a hardship.
A
s Jane had predicted, their morning was filled with excited chatter as Lydia and Kitty tried to outdo one another with stories about their adventures at the regimental ball. Kitty declared that she was truly in love with Mr. Gregory Tanner, which Lydia seemed to find hilarious.
“But Lizzy,” Kitty pleaded, “you saw how often Mr. Tanner and I danced, did you not?”
“I did, indeed,” Elizabeth said. The young officer did seem quite taken with Kitty… but he was very young. But all of the new officers were young… Except Mr. Wickham. He was surely close to thirty, if not older. Out of place in a garrison of men who had counted no more than three and twenty years.
His age did not bother her, not at all. But the comparison to the other officers would draw some attention—especially from those who wished to make an argument against him.
“And what did you think?” Kitty asked.
“Lizzy thought that you made a fool of yourself,” Lydia interjected. “Giggling and jumping about. You drank too much rum punch, too…”
“
You
had too much mulled wine,” Kitty shot back. “My head does not ache, but I know yours does, you complained of it all morning!”
“I did not,” Lydia protested. “Lizzy!”
“Do not bring me into this argument. I watched
both
of you behave poorly last night, and you are fortunate that I did not tell Mama.”
Lydia’s eyes widened while Kitty smothered a gasp, and Elizabeth felt some satisfaction that her threat had some effect on her sisters. She had, unfortunately, been far too preoccupied with Mr. Wickham to watch over her sisters as closely as she had promised, but no one need know that.
Lydia and Kitty were silly girls, but they did not recklessly endanger themselves, and Elizabeth knew that Mr. Denny would not allow anything terrible to happen to either girl. He had no romantic interest in Lydia that Elizabeth could see, but his care for both girls was evident, and Elizabeth did not begrudge their friendship.
“But you danced all night with Mr. Wickham,” Kitty said. “Do you like him?”
“I found him quite charming,” Elizabeth admitted. “He is a wonderful dancer.”
“You looked very well together,” Kitty said, pleased to be the only one who had noticed. “Did he promise to call on you?”
“He did not,” Elizabeth said. “But I do not expect him to. I am certain that he will be busy with his duties—”
“Mr. Tanner promised to call on me,” Kitty said excitedly. “I hope that he does not wait too long. I should like to introduce him to Mama. I think she will like him.”
Lydia rolled her eyes and pushed another scone onto her plate which was already smeared with preserves.
As the younger girls argued, Jane leaned against Elizabeth’s shoulder and spoke to her softly so the other two would not hear.
“Are you prepared to go to Netherfield Park today?” Jane asked.
Elizabeth sighed. “I am, indeed.”
“Perhaps Mr. Darcy will offer some apology for his behavior.” Elizabeth made a face and Jane laughed. “Now, Lizzy, you cannot be so inclined to refuse such a gesture.”
“If one is made, I shall try to be judicious and gracious in my acceptance of it. But I do not forgive him.”
Jane shook her head. “You are impossible.”
“An obstinate and headstrong girl,” Elizabeth said. “Yes, I am very aware.”
“You will be civil,” Jane pleaded. “For my sake.”
“Of course,” Elizabeth promised. “Though my dislike for Caroline Bingley will be unchanged, I shall smile and respond to her questions and jibes politely.”
“Thank you,” Jane whispered. “I could not do this without your support.”
“It is only because I see how happy you are when you speak of Mr. Bingley,” Elizabeth said. “I do hope that there will be more occasion for you to spend some time together. Although I would not doubt that he is already very much in love with you.”
“Do not tease me,” Jane whispered.
“I would never dream of it,” Elizabeth replied. She nudged her elbow against Jane’s ribs and smiled to see how quickly her sister’s cheeks turned rosy with embarrassment.
“How long will you stay at Netherfield Park today?” Kitty asked around a mouthful of buttered scone.
“Kitty,” Jane admonished. “We shall stay until late in the afternoon, I should think. Caroline Bingley seems to enjoy combining tea with some elements of luncheon… I am usually so full of food by the time I return home that I have no wish for supper.”
Lydia groaned and slathered preserves over her date scone. “Lord, I’m so hungry all the time. I should dearly love a teatime at a wealthy lady’s table.”
Elizabeth rolled her eyes and was about to say something, but Lydia dropped her knife with a clatter. “Oh! Lizzy! I forgot to tell you!”
That was odd. Lydia never neglected to tell anyone anything. She loved knowing things before anyone else.
“Tell me what?”
“Mrs. Forster,” she cried. “Did you see her at the ball?”
“I confess I did not,” Elizabeth replied. She felt an instant pang of guilt. She
had
meant to speak to the Colonel’s new wife, but had not found the opportunity as she had been too preoccupied with Mr. Wickham.
“Well, Mrs. Forster has invited me for tea, and thought you might like to accompany me?”
Elizabeth’s eyebrow rose. “Me?”
Lydia fidgited and swept her finger through a blob of preserves on her plate before smearing it upon her scone. “Mama will not allow me to go otherwise.”
Ah. There was the real reason.
“And when might this be?” Elizabeth asked.
Lydia stuck her finger in her mouth and shrugged.
“Well, let us hope that Mrs. Forster sends an invitation,” Elizabeth sighed. “Else Mama shall never agree.”
“What if you ask on my behalf?” Lydia protested. “If
you
tell Mama where we are going, she will not refuse you!”
Jane’s expression was serene, leaving Elizabeth to flounder for a response.
“I— I suppose—”
“Thank you, Lizzy! It will be a wonderful teatime!” Lydia clapped her hands loudly and Kitty pouted down at her scone. The fact that she had not been invited must have stung, but there was nothing Elizabeth could do to rectify that.
She was entirely certain that Mrs. Forster’s invitation had only been for Lydia—which was also something that would bear more scrutiny. What would possess a young married woman of two and twenty years to invite Lydia, barely sixteen, for tea?
“We shall see,” Elizabeth said.
“When will you mention it to Mama?”
Elizabeth let out a heavy sigh. “Perhaps tomorrow. I must survive a tea with Jane, Miss Bingley, and Mrs. Hurst before I can consider any other forays into society.”
Kitty and Lydia giggled at Elizabeth’s beleaguered tone while Jane sipped her tea.
“Let us hope that our foray is not the horrid experience you are expecting,” she said.
“It is my only hope,” Elizabeth agreed.
Finally, Jane laughed and Elizabeth felt some of her nervousness fall away. Jane was not cross with her, but it was no secret that Elizabeth did not enjoy Caroline Bingley’s company. If she were fortunate, their visit would not last any longer than necessary… but Elizabeth was not certain about her fortunes at the moment.
The prospect of another teatime was more daunting than she had expected.
Unexpected guests were troublesome enough—Elizabeth hated not knowing what to expect, and she knew nothing about Mrs. Forster except for the fact that she was married to the Colonel.
If Mrs. Forster had shown an interest in Lydia, Elizabeth would have to pay attention to her.
OceanofPDF.com

6
Elizabeth
N
etherfield Park was as beautiful as ever, and Elizabeth was grateful that the rain clouds she had feared had rolled over Meryton and away over Hertfordshire’s autumn fields.
The elegant stones and large windows were a testament to the wealth as well as the taste of the previous owner. Elizabeth could not recall the man’s name, but the influence of the estate had certainly been felt in Meryton. The same architect had been employed at several other estates, including Lucas Lodge. Sir William had spoken of it many times since the Bingleys had come to Meryton, as though it brought them closer together in some way.
“It is a beautiful house,” Elziabeth said as the carriage Miss Bingley had sent for them pulled into the courtyard. “I should be happy to see you as the mistress of this place.”
“Do not tease me,” Jane whispered as though she did not wish to destroy any chance that such a thing might be possible.
“Never,” Elizabeth said. She took hold of Jane’s hand and squeezed her fingers gently. “I only speak of that which I wish to see come to pass. I have no doubt that you will be happy… and that you will be mistress of this great estate.”
Jane’s cheeks were pink as she squeezed Elizabeth’s fingers in return. “I shall not say what I wish for, lest it be torn away from me. But I will say that I do love this house. Caroline complains constantly that it is too drafty.”
“I am certain she complains about much more,” Elizabeth said with a smile.
Jane pressed a finger against her lips and Elizabeth laughed.
“I shall say nothing more.”
“I do hope you shall break that promise,” Jane said as a footman strode toward the carriage to open the door. “I do not know what I shall do if you are silent for the entirety of our visit!”
“I could never remain silent,” Elizabeth promised. “Especially if I might use my words to deflect anything that Miss Bingley might say.”
“Let us hope that she has a mind for diplomacy as well,” Jane murmured.
Elizabeth inclined her head as Jane pulled her hands from Elizabeth’s grip and stepped down out of the carriage. She lingered for a moment longer, remembering how Mr. Wickham had come to meet her in the courtyard of the garrison hall. But there was no chance of seeing Mr. Wickham here—she must put him out of her mind.
Ste stepped down from the carriage without the footman’s assistance and thanked him as she walked by. Jane had already gone into the house, and Elizabeth paused, unsure if she was truly ready to face Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst.
The carriage pulled away, startling her, and Elizabeth smoothed her hands down over her skirt to distract herself and organize her thoughts.
“Miss Bennet?”
Oh, no.
Anyone but him.
Elizabeth turned to face the gentleman who had addressed her. The smile upon her face was polite, but there was certainly no sincerity behind it.
“Mr. Darcy,” she said. “I did not think to find you at Netherfield Park today.”
“I had planned to go riding,” he said. “But the weather is too threatening.”
Elizabeth frowned up at the clouds overhead.
As though on cue, a drop of water struck her cheek.
“We should go inside,” the gentleman said in a rush. He laid his hand upon Elizabeth’s elbow and directed her back toward the house before she could flinch away.
“Miss Bennet— You must allow me to apologize—”
Elizabeth wrenched her elbow from the gentleman’s grip as she climbed the stairs. “I thank you, Mr. Darcy, but I must allow you to do
nothing
.”
“You may speak whatever it is you have to say, but I do not have to forgive you.”
“I spoke to my friend,” he said, “believing that we were able to converse privately without being overheard, I spoke as plainly as I felt. A gentleman has no time for such luxuries. Courting, dancing, inviting their Mama for tea—”
“So you do not like it,” Elizabeth shot back.
His expression was stern. “I do not.”
Silence fell between them, but Elizabeth did not look away from his dark eyes. So unlike Mr. Wickham’s. Rain clicked against the windows and Elizabeth pressed her lips into a thin line. She could just turn and walk away—
“You will not allow me to apologize?”
His tone was incredulous. As though he had never met with an adversity like this in all his life.
“It is clear that I cannot stop you,” Elizabeth said mildly. “But if you persist, I suppose that I must listen.”
“I—”
Elizabeth sighed heavily. “Mr. Darcy, I took great offense to what was spoken about me at the Maeryton assembly. However, I take from your attempt at an apology that you assumed I would never have overheard them in the first place—thus, absolving you of any guilt you might have felt.”
She paused for just a moment, but not long enough to give him time to respond.
“I did not hear contrition in your tone, Mr. Darcy,” she continued. “Therefore, I can only deduce that if you were upset at all, it would be at the audacity of the subject of your scorn to be within an easy distance to hear all that you had to say. I daresay you would have continued to insult me had you realized your folly.”
“Miss Bennet, I must protest!” He choked on the words, and Elizabeth felt a small stab of victory to see him taken off guard. How unfamiliar a feeling that must be for him.
“You may, indeed,” Elizabeth said. “But I shall not be staying in your company long enough to hear it. Good day, Mr. Darcy.”
Elizabeth turned sharply and stepped into the house, leaving the unfortunate gentleman to pull up his collar against the steadily falling rain.
Voices in the parlor beckoned, and Elizabeth straightened her shoulders and strode down the corridor toward the sound.
Jane would be wondering where she had gone—and Miss Bingley would be preparing her barbs for Elizabeth’s late arrival.
She would have preferred almost any other company at that moment—but, unfortunately, her other options included Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy, and Elizabeth could not think of anyone she would have liked
less
to converse with.
“Ah! Miss Eliza Bennet. We thought we’d lost you.”
Caroline Bingley’s catlike smile did not reach her eyes, and Elizabeth was struck again at how the other woman’s voice always sounded haughty, as though she was resisting the urge to laugh—and not in a kind way.
“No, indeed,” Elizabeth replied as she approached the group of women. Jane’s smile had a desperate edge to it, and Elizabeth took a seat beside her upon the couch.
“I was just telling dear Jane how our brother is considering a return to London,” Caroline said. The catlike smile had not moved, but the other woman’s eyes had taken on a strange glint, as though she had a secret she was keeping from all of them. Or, more specifically, from Jane.
Before Jane could gasp with dismay, Elizabeth took a teacup and made a clicking, noisy show of pouring herself a cup of tea.
“What a terrible decision,” Elizabeth said brightly. “In my experience, Hertfordshire is much more tolerable in winter. London can be so dreary, even after it snows. And what kind of recommendation is that?”
Caroline’s expression pinched. “Indeed.”
That revelation had been made for a purpose, but Elizabeth had no intention of rewarding Caroline’s scheme, whatever it might be. She had obviously expected a somewhat different response, but Elizabeth’s antics had given Jane time to think instead of react.
“I do hope that you will help Mr. Bingley to reconsider his position,” Jane said mildly. “Lizzy is quite correct—Christmas in Hertfordshire is, indeed, something to behold.”
Caroline’s sneer was unmistakable, but she did not make any comment to accompany it.
Elizabeth was determined to protect her sister at all costs, and if that meant pretending to enjoy her teatime at Netherfield Park and the company of Mr. Bingley’s cold-hearted sisters, then so be it.
If she could not melt these women, she could entertain her sister and hope that she was not dwelling upon Caroline’s words—if Mr. Bingley departed Hertfordshire without offering a proposal, Jane would be inconsolable, and Elizabeth could not bear the thought of such a thing.
“A
re you still thinking of what Mr. Darcy said to you?”
Jane’s question cut through Elizabeth’s thoughts—thoughts she did not wish to be having about Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy.
Why could she not let go of her frustration and anger toward him? What did he matter?
“You must not dwell upon such things,” Jane continued as she pulled a necklace from her jewelry box. She held it up to her throat and regarded her reflection in the looking glass. “His opinion of you does not matter in the slightest. Everyone who knows you, loves you just as fiercely as I do. You do understand this, do you not?”
“Caroline Bingley certainly does not,” Elizabeth laughed. She pushed herself out of the chair by the fire and came to the vanity to help her sister with the clasp on the necklace she had chosen.
Jane grimaced.
“You do not need to apologize for Mr. Bingley’s sisters,” Elizabeth assured her. “Caroline is lovely on the outside only, and I do dislike the fact that you must spend so much time in her company.”
“She has not been cruel to me,” Jane said. “And I must make the best impression possible upon them—”
“Being held hostage with a gentleman’s sisters to prove your devotion seems a very cruel request,” Elizabeth muttered.
“Lizzy—”
“I apologize, of course. Once Mr. Bingley proposes, they can go back to London and be miserable to each other instead of you. But let us hope he does not wait until Christmas.”
But Elizabeth was, indeed, swelling upon Mr. Darcy’s words. How could she not? She had challenged him, and he had not been angry with her— But she had not seen any contrition in his eyes, or in his manner, either. It was clear enough that he did not regret his words, only that she had heard them.
But did he care that she had been hurt?
Impossible to know.
“Will you come to Netherfield Park today?” Jane asked suddenly.
Elizabeth patted her sister’s shoulder. “I think not,” she said. “It is a lovely day, and I would not wish to spend it in their company. If it were just you, I should agree in an instant, but Caroline Bingley’s presence is not something I wish to endure today.”
Jan laughed and pressed her fingers against Elizabeth’s. “I shall make apologies for your absence. Knowing of Caroline’s discomfort at your presence I should think you would be more eager to attend.”
“Do I make her uncomfortable?” Elizabeth asked slyly.
“I should think so, but if you do not see it…”
Elizabeth laughed and reached down to embrace her sister. “As long as
you
are able to tolerate my presence, that is all I care about. But I shall think more about how best to torment Caroline Bingley with my conversation for our next meeting.”
“See that you do,” Jane said and then she frowned at her reflection. “As much as I enjoy taking tea at Netherfield Park, I cannot help but wonder if it is all for nothing. Caroline certainly seems to believe so. Just before you arrived, she spoke of nothing but Mr. Bingley’s affection for Mr. Darcy’s sister, Georgiana! Their families have been friends for a very long time, and it seemed that they were all quite enamored of Miss Darcy.”
“Indeed,” Elizabeth mused. “That is very strange…”
But it was not strange at all. It seemed very clear to Elizabeth that Caroline wished to prepare Jane for the possibility that Mr. Bingley’s heart and mind could be turned elsewhere without much effort.
A young woman with a sizable income would be a temptation for any man, especially when the other choice would leave him no better off than he had started.
“Well,” Elizabeth said firmly. “If Miss Darcy is anything like her brother, I daresay Mr. Bingley would be a fool to make such a choice. You are, far and away, the better choice, and I am confident in saying so.”
Jane bit her lip to keep from laughing too loudly and pushed the chair back from the vanity so she could stand. “You always know how to lift my spirits,” she said. “I was well prepared to pity myself for the next fortnight and dwell upon thoughts of Mr. Bingley turning away from any thought of affection for me—”
“You should not worry about such things,” Elizabeth assured her. “Mr. Bingley would be a fool to listen to anything his sisters have to tell him. I have a little more faith in him… and you should, too.”
“I just wish that we could speak together… without their scrutiny,” Jane sighed. “But with the weather turning colder, it makes walking through the gardens a poor excuse… and I would likely only get wet feet and come home ill with a fever for my efforts.”
“I am quite certain that something could be devised,” Elizabeth said. “I shall think on it. It would be quite perfect, however, if there could be another ball— Before Christmas, perhaps.”
“But who could plan such a thing? It is almost the end of October!”
“Perhaps Mr. Bingley will realize that the only way he will be able to speak to you without the scrutiny of his sisters is to host a grand ball of his own,” Elizabeth said with a smile. “A gentleman who thinks himself in love will make many a grand gesture to ensure that he reaches his goal!”
“Do you really think so?” Jane’s smile was wistful and Elizabeth nodded.
“Indeed, I do,” she said. “I would not be surprised in the slightest if he were not already considering it. Make mention of it while you are at tea… Caroline and Louisa’s reactions should tell you all you need to know about the matter.”
Jane nodded, lips pressed together as she considered the possibility of it.
“I shall,” she murmured. “Thank you, Lizzy. You have lightened my heart a great deal.”
Elizabeth kissed her sister’s cheek and pushed her gently toward the door. “The carriage will arrive at any moment.”
“Are you certain that you will not come with me?”
“More certain than ever,” Elizabeth replied quickly.”You must cultivate a relationship with those women, and my presence will not help such a thing to develop. They must not be distracted from how lovely you are, or how much they might wish to have you as their sister. They do not need to be reminded that
I
will be a part of that arrangement.”
“Oh, Lizzy, I would not have it any other way,” Jane laughed.
“Get downstairs,” Elizabeth said. “Mama will be shouting for you soon enough.”
Jane grimaced, but rushed from the room and descended the stairs at a quicker pace than Elizabeth had expected. As much as she tried to hide it, Jane was nervous as well as excited to be invited to Netherfield Park for so many tea times. Elizabeth could not imagine that Caroline or Louisa were behind the invitations—it must have been Mr. Bingley’s request.
She could only hope that the gentleman did, indeed, plan to do something drastic to be able to spend some time alone with Jane—as alone as they could be without causing a scandal. But perhaps a scandal might hurry things along…
Elizabeth shook her head at the ridiculousness of her own thoughts. Jane would never do anything that might call her honor into question.
Kitty and Lydia would be more likely to do something ridiculous that would put them all in danger of losing what status the family did have. The silliest girls in England would bring them all to ruin if they were not watched carefully.
Lydia seemed determined to put herself in the most compromising positions, and it was a wonder that nothing had happened. The arrival of new officers in Meryton was always a matter of interest, but there was something about this year’s crop of young men that was different.
Perhaps it was Elizabeth’s interest in one officer in particular—she had never considered the possibility of being the wife of a soldier… but Mr. Wickham’s presence had made the option seem more intriguing than it had before.
E
lizabeth had no plans for her day at home, but she was so often preoccupied with one dramatic event or another that she rarely had time to pursue her own aims—in this case, a novel that she had been given at her last birthday that she had not found the time to read. It was a great irritation to her that she had been so distracted, but perhaps she would be able to just… sit.
Kitty and Lydia were in the parlor, and Elizabeth could hear the beginning of Mary’s seemingly unending pianoforte practice—it was best to stay upstairs where she would not be disturbed or dragged into the mediation of any arguments that would surely arise.
The fire that she had laid earlier that morning crackled merrily in the hearth, and Elizabeth settled herself into one of the high-backed chairs with the intention of staying there for the rest of the afternoon.
But she had only read a few pages when the echo of hoofbeats on the dirt road that led to Longbourn interrupted her solitude.
“What now,” she muttered.
She craned her neck to look out the closest window and beheld the arrival of three men on horseback. Officers from the garrison.
But why…
Excited squeals reverberated up the stairs and Elizabeth leaned her head back and let out a frustrated groan.
There would be no possible way she would be permitted to stay upstairs while there were officers visiting.
Mary’s pianoforte playing did not stop, but Elizabeth would not have expected her to care about such things. Kitty and Lydia, however, were beside themselves.
“Lizzy! You must come down!”
Kitty ran up the stairs, calling for her, and Elizabeth pushed herself out of the chair with a reluctant sigh.
She pulled her shawl around her shoulders just as Kitty ran across the landing to pause at the doorway to her bedchamber.
“Calm yourself,” Elizabeth said. “What is happening?”
“Mr. Denny and Mr. Tanner have come to visit,” she exclaimed. Her cheeks were bright pink and Elizabeth could not help but smile.
“How wonderful.”
“They have come to ask us to walk with them—”
“I shall come with you,” Elizabeth said. “Mama need not worry.”
“But you must come anyway,” Kitty said. “Mr. Wickham has come to see you as well!”
Elizabeth’s stomach tightened. “Did he?”
Kitty nodded excitedly. “They are ever so handsome in their red jackets, do you not agree?”
“I could not argue against it,” Elizabeth admitted.
“You must come at once,” Kitty cried before she ran back down the stairs.
She peered out the window to look at the officers who waited in the courtyard. They were a handsome trio, and Elizabeth’s cheeks burned as Mr. Wickham looked up at the second floor window and smiled at her.
She backed away quickly and pressed the back of her hand to her cheek to calm the heat that blazed there.
It was just a visit.
Nothing more.
She pulled her shawl more tightly around her shoulders as she came down the stairs. Kitty and Lydia rushed around looking for shawls and gloves while Mrs. Bennet gave orders from her chair in the parlor.
Elizabeth opened the front door and went out into the courtyard to greet the officers. The autumn sunshine was warm, but the chill in the air was undeniable.
“Miss Bennet,” Mr. Denny said with a smile. “How lovely to see that you are at home.”
“A fine day, is it not?” Mr. Tanner said.
The officers bowed as they greeted her and Elizabeth inclined her head, noticing that Mr. Wickham’s eyes did not leave her as he, too, bowed.
“A lovely day, indeed,” she said. “My sisters are flattered that you would call upon us. You are fortunate that Lydia and Kitty are both at home today.”
“We had hoped that we might invite you for a stroll,” Mr.Denny said brightly.
“We would be delighted,” Lydia shouted from the doorway.
Elizabeth bit her lip to keep from making a face as her sisters ran out of the house and into the courtyard.
“Mr. Tanner,” Kitty said breathlessly. “I am so pleased to see you.”
The gentlemen offered their arms and they walked toward the gardens and the path that led out to the nearby fields.
Lydia seemed somewhat disappointed that Mr. Denny had come, but she did not sulk for long as their conversation began in earnest. She did enjoy the young man’s company, but Mr. Denny was not as exciting as Lydia might have liked him to be. Elizabeth thought they might make a good match, as Mr. Denny seemed devoted to making Lydia smile, but it was too early to tell.
Kitty, on the other hand, seemed entirely captivated by Mr. Tanner and Elizabeth vowed to keep a close watch upon them.
“You seem distracted,” Mr. Wickham commented.
Elizabeth realized that they had been walking in silence, and she apologized immediately. “What brings you here today, Mr. Wickham, surely you might have had other pursuits to occupy your time?”
“No, indeed,” he said. “When I heard the other two discussing their plans, I must admit that I uninterrupted their conversation in order to invite myself along. It is very fortunate that you were home as well, otherwise I do not know what I might have done with my time.”
Heat crept into Elizabeth’s cheeks once more, and she hoped that her flush of embarrassment might be hidden by the effect of the cold weather on her skin.
“Oh—”
“I have been told that you have an elder sister,” Mr. Wickham said. “But I have not yet seen her.”
Elizabeth smiled. “Jane is at Netherfield Park today,” she replied. “She has been invited to tea quite frequently since the Meryton assembly.”
“And do you approve?”
Elizabeth’s brow rose slightly. “I believe I do. Mr. Bingley is an amiable sort of gentleman, though I am not certain of his choice in friends.”
“How so?”
“The gentleman who arrived with him is not… Well, I shall say only that if Mr. Darcy were to come to the door, I should pretend to be otherwise occupied.”
Elizabeth had expected Mr. Wickham to laugh, but the gentleman’s jaw tightened, and he did not smile.
“Have I said something to offend you?” Elizabeth asked.
“No, no, indeed,” Mr. Wickham replied quickly. “I wish her every happiness and hope that she will not be disappointed.”
Elizabeth smiled, but said nothing more. This was the second time that Mr. Wickham had reacted strangely at the mention of Mr. Darcy’s name.
Elizabeth did not mention the gentleman again, but resolved to discover the meaning behind Mr. Wickham’s sudden change of character. It would have to wait until they were away from her sisters… but she was determined to discover how the two gentlemen knew one another. For there could be no other reason for such a response…
What had Mr. Darcy done?
OceanofPDF.com

7
Darcy
I
t was not yet midafternoon and the day had already been more frustrating than most.
It was one thing to be trapped in the countryside with Charles Bingley and his sisters, but entirely another to discover that a gentleman he wished to avoid at all costs had somehow been discovered to be in the same place.
Was the world not large enough?
Why did he have to come here?
“Mr. Darcy you must cease your pacing,” Caroline Bingley drawled. “Your furious steps are making my head throb.”
“Whatever is the matter?” Louisa said without looking up from her book.
Neither of them really cared about what he was feeling, but Darcy did stop pacing. He clasped his hands behind his back and glared out at the rolling green fields and the darkness of the pine forest that marked the barrier between Netherfield Park and the neighboring estate.
A lone figure on horseback approached the house and relief flooded through Darcy’s chest as he recognized Charles Bingley’s favorite blue coat.
“I shall not trouble you any longer,” he said shortly as he strode for the door.
“Mr. Darcy—”
Caroline called after him, but he did not slow his pace. Charles had left to go riding without him, and Darcy cursed himself for being preoccupied with letters that had arrived from Pemberley and his dear sister, Georgiana.
Darcy strode down the corridor and out the front door before a footman could leap forward to assist him. He half-walked, half-jogged out to meet Charles, who pulled his gelding up short as Darcy approached.
“My god, man, you look terrible,” Charles exclaimed.
“You do not know the half of it.”
Charles jumped down from the saddle and threw the reins to his friend. “Then tell me.”
Darcy frowned at his boots for a moment and then laid a hand upon the gelding’s shoulder. The warmth of the horse was comforting, and he realized for the fourth time that day just how much he missed Pemberley and his own stables.
“I have just had some news,” he began.
“Indeed. Everything is well at Pemberley?”
“Of course,” Darcy replied. “Mrs. Reynolds has everything well in hand, as usual.”
“And Georgiana is well?”
“Very.”
“Then I confess that I cannot think of what might have put you in such a terrible mood,” Charles exclaimed, clearly flabbergasted by the entire mystery.
Darcy could not think of a single moment when he had seen Charles Bingley in poor spirits. The man seemed perpetually pleased with everything.
It was tedious and enviable at the same time.
“You recall my dealings with Mr. George Wickham.”
Charle’s brow furrowed. “Indeed, I do. The scoundrel. Why would you have cause to remember that odious beast?”
They were strong words that almost made Darcy laugh. Almost.
“It seems that the snake has reared his head,” Darcy said through gritted teeth.
“Where? Nowhere near Georgiana, I hope?”
“No. He is here… in Hertfordshire.”
If they had been speaking of anything else, Charles’ shocked expression would have been comical.
“How?”
“He is with the militia.”
“That— How
dare
he!”
“I suspect he used the last of the money I gave him to purchase the commission. I wish he had gone abroad, instead.”
Charles’ jaw tightened. He knew precisely what pain George Wickham had caused, and how close he had come to ruining Goergiana’s chances at having any kind of happiness.
“What do you think his scheme is?”
Darcy shook his head. “I could not say. Perhaps he has realized the error of his ways and has resolved to better himself and contribute to society once more.”
“Or he has acquired a large debt and wishes to be protected from collection by his newly acquired uniform.”
The bitterness in Charles’ voice was impossible to ignore.
“Will you speak to the Colonel?”
Darcy looked at his friend in surprise. “And ask him to do what? Expel the man?”
“I should think so,” Charles fumed.
Darcy had never seen his friend so outraged. “And if he has changed his ways?”
Charles snorted. “Do you really believe such a thing possible?”
“No,” Darcy admitted. “I do believe that you are quite correct. He has probably been avoiding bad debts and saw this as a last attempt to escape them.”
“You must speak to the Colonel about it,” Charles insisted.
“I do not wish to drag up old wounds,” Darcy said.
“You must decide, and quickly,” Charles said. “I have decided to host a ball.”
Darcy stared at his friend, incredulous.
“And why would you do such a thing?”
Charles smiled. “Is it not something that a country gentleman in possession of a respectable income should do to entertain his friends and neighbors?”
“I have never hosted one at Pemberley,” Darcy said.
“Caroline complains of that fact often,” Charles countered. “You should really consider it—perhaps in the spring.”
“No.”
“With that attitude, I fear you shall always be a bachelor,” Charles sighed. “Still you really must think of speaking to the Colonel. He would listen to you, I am certain of it. He should know that the men under his command are of the very best quality. And George Wickham certainly does not qualify for such a title.”
“I cannot argue with that,” Darcy said.
The stable rose ahead of them, and the gelding whickered as they came within earshot of the other residents of the stalls.
“Well, if you will not confront the man, I shall,” Charles said. “I have no desire for him to believe that he might be welcome at Netherfield Park, or anywhere I might be present, for that matter.”
“Will you invite the regiment to this ball you are planning?”
“Caroline and Louisa will be planning it, but yes, the Colonel will receive an invitation.”
“Then let us hope that Mr. Wickham is more intelligent than to think he would be able to show his face here without causing a spectacle.”
“And your guest list,” Darcy said. “Who else is on it?”
“Every prominent family in Hertfordshire, of course,” Charles said. “I shall also send invitations to some of our friends in London. Perhaps they will brave the journey for a chance at some relaxation. There are so many rooms at the house that I fear they shall go to waste if they are not used. I mean to have an evening filled with music and laughter.”
“And how many dances with Miss Jane Bennet?”
Charles grinned. “As many as I am able to procure,” he exclaimed. “Did you— Did you speak to her sister?”
Darcy gritted his teeth.
“I—”
“You did not speak to her? But Caroline tells me she has come to Netherfield with her sister on several occasions.”
“I did speak to her.”
Charles took the gelding’s reins and handed them off to one of the stable lads. “Did you apologize?”
“Apologize?” Darcy tugged at his collar. “For what?”
Charles glared at him. “You did not apologize? Darcy, you cannot stand there and tell me that you do not realize that you embarrassed the young lady— And insulted her!”
“She was not supposed to overhear it!”
“Indeed, not,” Charles snorted. “And has your opinion changed?”
“Of what? You know I shall never enjoy dancing.”
“Of Miss Elizabeth Bennet,” Charles said tersely. “Has your opinion of her changed?”
Ah.
It had.
“I could not say.”
“You are a terrible liar,” Charles laughed. “But you may keep your secrets if you wish.”
“I have no secrets, Charles.”
“Then you will not have any objection to dancing with Miss Bennet at the ball.”
“I—”
“I insist,” Charles said. “You owe the young lady as much.”
Darcy could not argue with such a statement. “I suppose I do.”
When they had last spoken, Elizabeth Bennet had made her dislike of him very clear. Perhaps she had softened toward him, or would be amenable to accepting his offer of a dance if only for the appearance of amity.
If Charles truly did intend to marry Jane Bennet, then Elizabeth would be a fixture in all of their lives. And they must have an accord.
He would have to try.
OceanofPDF.com

8
Elizabeth
I
n Meryton on an errand for their mother, Elizabeth tried her best to distract herself from thoughts of Mr. Wickham. The same trio of officers had come to Longbourn twice more since their first visit, and each time Elizabeth found herself more and more charmed by Mr. George Wickham.
He asked questions about her likes and dislikes, her favorite books, even her favorite desserts… But she still knew so little about him. And had not yet discovered the reason for his aversion to Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy.
She could not think about Mr. Wickham without her the irritation of the way her thoughts traveled, unbidden, to Mr. Darcy and the wonder of what
he
might be doing.
“Stop it,” she muttered.
“Lizzy, did you say something?”
Jane peered over a stack of books and Elizabeth shook her head. “No, it is nothing.”
“You seem somewhat off-balance of late,” Jane mused as she came closer.
The bookseller’s shop was small, and Elizabeth was often disappointed in the variety of books that the elderly man decided to order from London.
His supplies of paper, ink, and quills were adequate, but she longed for some romantic poetry, or a translation of a German novelist she had discovered when she was last in London. Alas, the dusty pile of novels and pamphlets were decidedly uninteresting. As usual.
“I have a secret to tell you,” Jane whispered as she leaned against Elizabeth’s shoulder.
“A secret,” Elizabeth teased. “You have those so rarely I should not even know who to tell… Is it a scandalous secret?”
Jane’s cheeks glowed pink. “Decidedly not.”
“Surely it must be interesting, otherwise you would not compel me to secrecy,” Elizabeth said.
She selected the quills and ink that their mother had requested, and then chose a roll of paper, new sealing wax, and a new ledger for her father.
Mr. Bennet would grumble at the unnecessary expense, but Elizabeth had noticed that he was almost at the final pages of his current ledger, and she did not wish for him to reach the end without another to replace it.
She laid the items down upon the counter and waited while the shop owner tallied up the purchases to write down in his credit book.
“Is it about someone else,” Elizabeth asked. “A bit of gossip?”
The older man’s thick eyebrows rose slightly, but he did not look up.
“Hush,” Jane whispered. “I shall tell you outside.”
Elizabeth bit her lip to keep from laughing at Jane’s discomfort. She had not meant to embarrass her sister, but Jane’s reaction could only mean that whatever she had to say would have something to do with Mr. Bingley.
The shop owner packaged up Elizabeth’s purchases and she tucked the bundle under her arm and followed Jane out of the shop. The air was brisk, and Elizabeth was grateful that she had brought her winter shawl out of its box in preparation for the colder weather that was now suddenly upon them.
“I do apologize,” Elizabeth said with a smile. “I did not mean to say that so loudly—”
“You are a terror,” Jane laughed. “But you are not incorrect. What I have to tell you is a bit of gossip.”
“Is it?” Elizabeth gasped.
“Well, not entirely.” Jane said as they walked down the cobblestone street. “But there is someone else involved.”
“Is it Mr. Bingley?”
Jane nodded.
“Are you secretly engaged?”
“Indeed, we are not,” Jane exclaimed. “You shall not speak another word about that…”
“I promise,” Elizabeth laughed as she slipped her arm through Jane’s.
“There is to be a ball,” Jane said. “At Netherfield Park.”
Elizabeth sucked in a breath. “So close to Christmas?”
Jane nodded, her cheeks pink from the cold and from something else that Elizabeth could not quite determine.
“How do you know?”
“I overheard Caroline and Luisa speaking about it just the other day when I came to tea,” Jane replied. “It is not official as yet, but the invitations have been ordered.”
“The girls will be overjoyed. I know that Lydia was clamoring for another ball. Christmas always seems so far away until it is suddenly upon us.”
“I cannot agree more,” Jane said.
“Do you think there will be a proposal included with this ball,” Elizabeth mused.
“Do not tease me.”
“I am not teasing,” Elizabeth protested. “I am simply wondering what other reason there could be for such an extravagant event!”
“Mr. Bingley is merely extending his gratitude for the kindness of his new neighbors and friends,” Jane said. Her cheeks were bright pink now, and Elizabeth pressed her fingers to her lips to keep from laughing again.
“Indeed. What a generous man.” A sudden thought struck Elizabeth. “Will the regiment be invited, do you think?”
“I should think so,” Jane replied. “There was mention of Colonel Forster, although it might have been when Louisa enquired about the decorations at the regimental ball…”
“No doubt to mock them,” Elizabeth muttered.
“Lizzy— I do hope that Mrs. Forster will be a friendly face in attendance,” Jane said. “I should like to know her better.”
A group of officers, their red coats marking them out among the drab-colored coats of the other Meryton residents who filled the streets.
“Did you have any particular officers in mind,” Jane asked. It was obvious that she relished her opportunity to return some of Elizabeth’s good-natured teasing.
“Perhaps,” Elizabeth said.
“If the regiment were not invited would you stay home?” Jane asked.
“I had not decided yet,” Elizabeth answered honestly. “Although an evening at home without the possibility of seeing Mr. Darcy would be preferable to the alternative.”
“I do not understand your continued dislike of the gentleman,” Jane sighed. “I thought you said that he apologized to you for his behavior—”
“Ah,” Elizabeth interrupted her sister. “But he did not apologize… not really. He was merely sorry that I had overheard him. Nothing more. He did not try to ease the sharpness of his words, or the judgment of them. In fact, I do believe he attempted to place the blame for any hurt caused on my standing close enough to hear what had been said.”
“Lizzy,” Jane said. “Surely not…”
“Oh, indeed. An unexpected approach, I grant you. But surely one that has been successful in the past. I do wonder how many young ladies of good breeding and accomplishment have been slighted in such a fashion.”
“You are being ridiculous now,” Jane breathed.
“How certain are you that this ball will be held?”
“Very,” Jane said.
“Then if I speak of this to someone else, it will not be troublesome?”
“Lizzy—” Jane’s eyes widened as Elizabeth grinned and walked faster in the direction of the officers who stood at the corner of the White Horse Inn.
“Mr. Wickham,” she called out. The officer in question looked up, and a few of the other officers with him jostled against him. His dark blue eyes sparkled and Elizabeth’s cheeks warmed as he smiled at her.
“Miss Bennet,” he said. “How wonderful to see you, and your sister—”
Jane was several steps behind her, but that did not stop Elizabeth from blurting out, “Mr. Wickham, I should very much like to know if you would attend a ball…”
His eyebrow rose slightly. “If I am invited,” he replied. “I do enjoy dancing, especially when my partner is as lovely as you.”
There were chuckles and whispers from the other officers, some of whom Elizabeth recognized, but aside from Mr. Tanner, she could not recall their names.
“When is this ball?” Mr. Tanner asked.
“I should think it will be announced in a few weeks,” Elizabeth said. “The regiment will surely be invited.”
“And who will be hosting this event? And so close to Christmas…” Mr. Wickham’s eyes had not left hers.
“It is to be held at Netherfield Park,” Elizabeth said. “My sister Jane has just confirmed it. Invitations will be sent out soon enough.”
“Netherfield Park? A fine estate, surely a wonderful event,” Mr. Tanner said excitedly. “And your sister Kitty will be there?”
Mr. Wickham’s eyes narrowed.
“Most assuredly,” Elizabeth said, distracted by Mr. Wickham’s change in mood. “It would be impossible to keep Kitty away from dancing of any kind.”
“I do not believe I shall be available,” Mr. Wickham said shortly.
Jane tugged on Elizabeth’s elbow. “Come along,” she said before smiling at the officers who had gathered to listen. “You are behaving like Lydia—”
Jane’s whispered words were enough to make Elizabeth realize that she had, indeed, been acting out of character. She laced her fingers together in front of herself and smiled at the officers apologetically.
“Good day, gentlemen,” Jane said. “I do hope that we shall see you all at Netherfield Park for Mr. Bingley’s ball.”
Mr. Wickham turned away from the group and strode down the street, and Elizabeth felt a strange pang as she watched him leave. He was clearly upset, and she was tired of being confused by his actions whenever Mr. Darcy, or even the hint of Mr. Darcy, was mentioned.
Jane pulled Elizabeth toward another shop, but Elizabeth resisted.
“I must speak to Mr. Wickham,” she said.
Jane’s eyes darted to the gentleman who walked away from them and then back to Elizabeth. “Do hurry,” she said.
Elizabeth nodded and handed the package of papers to Jane. “I shall not be long.”
“Lizzy,” Jane said quickly. “I did not mean to accuse you of acting like Lydia—”
“No,” Elizabeth said with a smile. “You are right to accuse me of such. Lydia is in love with everything all the time, and I fear that I have never known what that feeling is…”
“You are in love with Mr. Wickham?”
Elizabeth bit her lip. “No— No, I do not— I do not know. I must speak to him.”
“Do hurry,” Jane whispered, but she smiled, too, and Elizabeth felt a little lighter as she rushed down the street toward Mr. Wickham.
His pace was quick, and Elizabeth struggled to keep up. “Mr. Wickham,” she called out, trying her best to keep her tone light. It was beyond embarrassing and improper when Lydia shouted at everyone she met in the street, and she would never do such a thing.
“Mr. Wickham?”
Frustration tinged her steps, worried that he had not heard her, but after a few steps, the gentleman slowed and turned toward her.
“Miss Bennet—”
“I must speak with you,” she said.
He paused, a look of amusement upon his face. “Indeed?”
“I must speak with you about Mr. Darcy,” she said as she reached him.
George Wickham was much taller than her, and Elizabeth’s breath caught as he drew back his shoulders and looked down at her.
“And why might that be?”
“I must know why it is that you seek to avoid any talk of him, or any opportunity that you might see him— What happened between you? There must be something. Do you fear him? Hate him? Please, you must tell me.”
Mr. Wickham’s expression hardened, but only for a moment. “I cannot speak to you like this, in the street,” he said. He pointed to a small alley between two buildings. “There—”
Elizabeth swallowed hard, she had felt somewhat safe speaking to him in the street where other people could see them, but a private corner where no one could observe their conversation? Did she dare to trust him?
She looked back, but Jane had disappeared into a shop, and Elizabeth turned to Mr. Wickham and nodded. “If you will not speak to me here, then I shall follow you.”
The gentleman smiled, but it seemed strained, and he walked toward the space he had indicated without saying anything more.
Elizabeth followed closely, and felt a stab of worry before she stepped into the shadows behind him.
There was just enough space for the two of them between the buildings, and Elizabeth stood there, hesitantly, her hands clasped in front of her.
“Why would you not speak to me in the street?” Elizabeth asked.
“I could not risk Mr. Darcy coming upon us, or his friend Mr. Bingley,” he said in a hushed voice.
“But why not?”
“I could not risk that you might become an object of their ridicule, as I have been,” he admitted.
“Ridicule… but why? I do not understand—”
“Some years ago, I knew Mr. Darcy very well. Has he spoken of his home in Derbyshire?”
“Not to me,” Elizabeth said. “But I know he is the master of an estate there.”
“Pemberley,” Mr. Wickham said. “A charming estate that surpasses Netherfield Park in grandeur and beauty a hundred times over. Master, indeed.”
There was bitterness in his voice as he said those words.
“My father was valet to the late Mr. Darcy,” he continued. “When my father died, Mr. Darcy raised me alongside his own son. We were as good as brothers. We were tutored together, rode together… Everything I could have ever wanted from my childhood was given to me without question.”
“How wonderful,” Elizabeth murmured. “He must have been a kind man.”
“He was,” Mr. Wickham agreed. “And he never treated me as though I were lesser even though my father was only a valet… But his son—”
“Was Mr. Darcy cruel to you?”
“Never when his father could observe it,” he replied shortly. “When the elder Mr. Darcy died, the younger’s true nature came out. I was cast from the estate without a penny to my name. Every promise that had been made to me about my future—all forgotten in the face of his newfound power.”
“But if his father had wished it, how could Mr. Darcy go against—”
“He is as cruel as his father was kind. I was not permitted to bid farewell to Georgiana, who I loved as a sister. It was the sharpest cut of all. To know that he had poisoned her against me. She would not reply to my letters, and I was left alone to make my own way in the world.”
“How horrible,” Elizabeth said. “To have so much happiness taken away from you… But you have come here, to Hertfordshire, a member of the militia…”
Mr. Wickham’s smile was thin and pained. “I used the very last of my money to purchase this commission. It is my only hope of making something of my life that I can be proud of, and even now I fear that Mr. Darcy will stop at nothing to take that away from me.”
Elizabeth’s eyes widened in horror. “He could not do such a thing.”
“But he
could
,” Mr. Wickham insisted. “He could speak to Colonel Fitzwilliam and pour lies in his ear… turn him against me and have me expelled from the militia.”
“Does he have so much power?”
“Money, my dear Miss Elizabeth, gives men all the power they need.”
Elizabeth shook her head. “I do not believe it—”
“You think me a liar?”
Mr. Wickham’s voice was strangled and sharp and Elizabeth looked up into his dark blue eyes at once.
“Indeed, I do believe you,” she said. “I am shocked that Mr. Darcy could behave in such a manner—to someone who was as close to him as a brother… It is unthinkable.”
Before Elizabeth could say anything further, Mr. Wickham’s hands fell upon her waist and he bent his head to press his lips against hers.
Elizabeth froze, unable to move or think.
The kiss was gentle, but strange, and she could taste the spice of mulled wine on his lips and smell the pipe smoke in his hair.
She tried to pull away, but Mr. Wickham’s hands were tight on her waist—but then, as quickly as it had happened, he broke the kiss and smiled at her, seemingly unaware of her panic.
“You believe me,” he murmured. “It has been so long since I have been able to speak the truth and have someone believe me. With you, Elizabeth, I can finally be honest without fear of being rejected… Thank you.”
Stunned, Elizabeth could think of nothing to say. “I—”
“Surely, now you understand why I cannot bear to hear any discussion of Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy?”
She nodded.
“I am afraid for my very future, Elizabeth… If I am to have one at all, I must stay away from Mr. Darcy. Will you help me?”
“Of course,” she whispered.
He took hold of her hand and pulled it to his lips. He brushed a kiss against her knuckles, and then stepped out from between the buildings and into the gray daylight.
“May I come to see you at Longbourn?”
“Yes,” Elizabeth replied. She was still frozen in place, unable to move.
“I shall not keep you from your errands,” he said with a smile. “Thank you, Elizabeth…”
Elizabeth could not reply, but he seemed not to need one as he smiled and turned away. She pressed her fingers to her lips and took a shaking breath. He had kissed her.
Had she wanted him to?
Yes.
And yet—
Her heart pounded in her chest, her mind numbed with the revelation that Mr. Wickham had shared with her. How could Mr. Darcy have behaved with such cruelty? How could he break promises his father had made just to punish Mr. Wickham?
Was there an inheritance he had been denied? A promise of something more?
It was almost too much to bear, and Elizabeth did not know what to think… but she did believe him. She did believe that Mr. Darcy would be capable of such actions.
Elizabeth brushed her hands over her skirts and stepped out from between the buildings. It seemed that no one had seen her, and she took a deep breath before she walked back toward where she had left Jane.
This time, as she thought of Mr. Wickham, she did not find a thought of Mr. Darcy intruding—Mr. George Wickham was handsome, charming, and vulnerable… Perhaps she could consider being a soldier’s wife, after all. He seemed concerned for his future, could the words that went unsaid have been meant for her?
He wished to secure a future for himself so that he might have the means to take a wife—to make an offer of marriage and a promise to provide a life that he could be proud of. It could have been nothing else.
Elizabeth allowed herself to hope for that precise thing.
To hope that he wished to set in motion a future that
she
could be a part of.
OceanofPDF.com

9
Darcy
“D
o you plan to marry her?”
Charles Bingley’s smile gave Darcy the answer he was looking for. He knew it already, but he wished to hear it from his friends’ lips.
“I will make my offer at the ball,” Charles said. “I have already sent a letter to her father and begged him to keep my request a secret from her. I would have the evening be one to remember…”
Darcy tried not to grimace. Caroline and Louisa had spoken of nothing else but the potential of this match, and as determined as Charles was to see it through, his sisters were equally determined to see it fail.
“Have you spoken to Colonel Forster?”
Darcy shook his head. “I have not.”
“I do hope that there will not be a spectacle,” Charles muttered. “Wickham had best stay clear of Netherfield Park, or by God I will have him thrown out by his face. He would not dare—”
“I do not think he will come,” Darcy said. “If he did, all present would know the truth of his crimes and insults against my family.”
Charles nodded.
“Then what will you do?”
“Nothing,” Darcy replied. “Unless I am provoked.”
“Have you told Georgiana of his sudden… appearance?”
“I have not,” Darcy said. “Nor shall I. It would break her heart and send her back to that darkness she so narrowly avoided when he was last in her life.”
“You should have dueled him then and there,” Charles said through gritted teeth.
Darcy chuckled at the vehemence of his friend’s tone.
“You know very well that I could not,” Darcy said.
“All the same,” Charles fumed.
“It was enough to leave him in disgrace,” Darcy said.
“It was not enough for
him
.”
Clearly not.
Darcy pulled a fresh sheet of paper from the drawer of the writing desk. He was overdue to write to his solicitor in London, but he could not find the words that were necessary to do so. The business of his estate was falling behind, and every day he spent in Hertfordshire only sharpened that awareness.
“I do not wish to speak of that scoundrel any longer,” Charles said fiercely. “If it comes to it, I shall speak to Colonel Forster myself. With your permission, of course.”
Darcy shook his head and dipped the tip of the quill into the pot of ink.
“I cannot give it,” he said. “I would feel terribly guilty to see you with a bloodied nose—”
“Do you doubt that I would be able to defend myself,” Charles cried.
“No, no,” Darcy laughed. “Not at all. I just have some experience with George Wickham’s propensity for cheating at nearly everything he touches.”
Charles’ mouth twisted. “Well noted.”
“Tell me more of your engagement,” Darcy said, eager to change the subject. “Do you believe she will agree? Or, more importantly, do you believe her father will agree? I have not spoken with Mr. Bennet as yet.”
“He is an interesting gentleman,” Charles said as he turned toward the window once more. “His care for his estate weighs heavily on his shoulders, but I do not feel as though he will use it to pressure any arrangement—”
“Their income is small?”
“Decidedly. I have heard Caroline and Louisa talking about it in derisive tones of late, but I am not deterred. I can see no other candidate for the partner of my heart and hearth…”
“Very poetic,” Darcy commented dryly.
“Is it? I did not notice,” Charles laughed.
Darcy set down his quill and regarded his friend carefully. “In all the years I have been your friend, I have never known you to speak so highly of a young lady,” he said. “Your sisters—”
“My sisters hate the very notion of my marriage unless they are the ones to shove a young lady in my direction. One of their choosing that they will be able to control, or one who is just like them.” Charles shook his head.
Darcy was stunned by his friend’s assessment of the situation.
“And when did you come to such a conclusion?”
“Very recently, I am afraid. Caroline will not cease in her praise of Miss Violet Cranston, the eldest daughter of Lady Parnell. We met three winters ago at a ball I would much rather forget than recall with any detail.”
“She is not to your liking?”
“Indeed not,” Charles laughed. “She is a precise copy of Caroline’s disposition, with all the charm of a feral cat.”
Darcy made an effort to keep his face expressionless. “How could you turn away from such a perfect match?”
“She was beautiful, I grant you,” Charles said. “But beauty fades, does it not?”
“It does.”
“I could not abide what would be left behind once that beauty fled.”
Darcy set down his quill and allowed himself to laugh. He had never heard Charles say a word about this young woman, but it did not surprise him that Caroline would have chosen such a companion—if only to have someone in the house who was similar to herself. A kindred spirit of sorts who would also conspire to make Charles’ life a misery for her own amusement.
Horrid.
“But Miss Jane Bennet—” Charles looked wistful. “When that beauty fades, as I know it will, what is left behind is just as beautiful. She is kind, gentle, and I cannot think of any laugh I should like to hear in my winter years if it is not hers.”
Darcy nodded, suddenly solemn. “A pity that her sister is so dissimilar.”
“Do you believe her to be so different?” Charles asked. “I have found her to be quite diverting. She has a ready wit and keen opinions…”
“Keen as the edge of a knife,” Darcy muttered.
Charles’ eyebrow rose. “So, you have spoken with her since the assembly? You did not tell me.”
“I did,” Darcy admitted. “I made an attempt to apologize for my words.”
“And?”
“She rebuked me,” Darcy replied. “Quite soundly.”
Charles chuckled. “Perhaps you deserved it.”
“Indeed.”
“Do not frown,” Charles cajoled him. “You shall speak to her again at the Netherfield Ball, I command it.”
“Command it?”
“I am the host of the event, am I not?” he declared. “I may command whatever I wish. And I command that you shall be friends with Miss Elizabeth Bennet— At the very least you shall make an attempt at amity. If I am to be married to her sister, then she will be a frequent visitor to Netherfield Park, which I also expect of you. Therefore, I command an arrangement to be made.”
“An arrangement,” Darcy repeated.
“If you cannot be friends, then you shall be civil and polite to one another. I would have your promise.”
Darcy set down his unused quill and rubbed a hand over his jaw. “I see.”
“Well?”
Charles set his hands upon his hips and glared at his friend, and Darcy could not escape the demand that had been made.
Silence fell between them, but Charles did not move.
“I shall see it done,” Darcy said finally.
“Good.”
Though Darcy did not see that Elizabeth Bennet would give him a second chance to make amends, he would have to make an attempt at friendship. If only for the happiness of two people who deserved happiness. His friend. Her sister. Perhaps that could be the focal point of their negotiations. All she need do was listen to him.
On the surface, it seemed a simple task.
It would be up to Miss Elizabeth Bennet to decide how they would proceed.
He hoped that it would be as friends, and then he could determine how to manage his persistent thoughts of her, and the way her dark eyes sparkled in the candlelight, and how her mouth tightened when she was angry.
He did not wish to see her angry, and he had been thinking about their conversation for far too many hours, every nuance of it. Every gesture she had made. The way her cheeks had flushed—
Stop it.
The ball was only a few days away, and he had no time to prepare.
A
s much as Darcy had tried to avoid the evening’s festivities, Caroline and Louisa had made such a thing impossible. He would have liked nothing better than to retreat to his chamber, or the second floor library, to escape the guests…
He had labored over his decision all day and came to the conclusion that he must attend the ball, if only to compliment Charles and his sisters on their efforts. He was relieved to have not been asked to contribute to the preparations, but he would not have known where to begin even if they had asked.
Now, as he stood in the corridor just outside Netherfield Park’s ballroom, he wished that he could rush back up the stairs and disappear into the library.
The ball was, of course, everything Charles had promised it would be.
Caroline and Louisa had taken charge of every aspect of the decor, food, and entertainment, while Charles had refused to give up control of the guest list.
Invitations had been sent and replies had flooded back with alarming speed.
It seemed that everyone in Hertfordshire had a curiosity about the new tenant of Netherfield Park, and Caroline and Louisa were steadfast in their determination that a favorable opinion of their hosts was the only logical outcome of such an evening.
As much as they derided ‘country society’ it seemed very clear to Darcy that Mr. Bingley’s sisters were still very much concerned with the opinions of their new neighbors.
Some things would never change.
The room was beautiful; Darcy would happily admit such a thing.
“Has there ever been a ball at Pemberley that was as lovely or as well attended?”
Caroline stood at Darcy’s elbow—he had not even heard her approach—he smiled briefly, determined not to let her see that she had surprised him.
“None that I can recall,” he replied.
It was not a lie or flattery. He had no memory of such functions at Pemberley. When his mother had died, all the joy had left the house with her. Georgiana’s mother had not survived the childbed, and with her untimely death, his father had lost all taste for frivolity.
Mrs. Reynolds had told him stories of grand Christmas parties and masques that his parents had hosted in the first years of their marriage—but that had all come to a stop. His father could not bear to be reminded of what his life had once been.
“You must allow me to plan a Christmas ball at Pemberley,” Caroline said. “It is high time that our friends in London came to the country.”
“Did you not invite them tonight?” Darcy asked.
His question was met by Louisa’s sharp laughter as she approached from his left. “Here?” Her tone was incredulous. “I would not invite our friends to Hertfordshire even if they demanded it. I should die of embarrassment. No, indeed. Pemberley is the only country estate worth having, do you not agree, Caroline?”
“Entirely,” Caroline replied with a smooth smile.
Darcy felt trapped between the two women, but he could not escape—
The dance floor was crowded, and the musicians played merrily, the tempo thudded in time with Darcy’s heart and his mouth was dry.
“If you will excuse me,” he croaked and strode away from the space he had thought would be his refuge from the noise and the crowd of guests. With Caroline and Louisa prowling the house, nowhere was safe.
He could feel their stares as he walked away, and, depending upon his next movements, he knew that he would have to face their questions and accusations when the guests had all departed.
Officers in their red jackets stood out amongst the crowd—Charles’ assertion that he must speak to the Colonel had gone unheeded, for Darcy did not know quite how to broach the subject of Mr. Wickham to anyone… especially not the man’s commanding officer.
It had been a shock to hear of his presence in Meryton, and he had still not decided how to approach the matter.
Was he still angry with his former friend?
Of course… that was not in question. What he had done to Georgiana was unforgivable. It was, all of it, unforgivable. His reaction to Darcy’s father’s wishes, and his hopes for Mr. Wickham’s future— Unforgivable.
No. He would always be angry with him and wished never to speak to him or see him ever again.
And yet here he was, in Meryton… Of all the places in the world, how had he ended up here? And now? It was almost too much to bear.
But bear it he must.
His destination was the array of punch bowls, but what Darcy really wanted was a glass of whiskey to enjoy in a quiet room—preferably far away from all of the people who currently filled Netherfield Park’s ballroom.
Narrowly avoiding collision, Darcy stepped out of the path of a pair of young women who raced in a very unladylike manner toward the dance floor.
Their laughter was loud and unashamed, and Darcy wondered for just a moment as to who they might be. Surely such unfettered behavior would not be encouraged. He could not imagine his own sister behaving in such a manner.
Certainly not.
He was preoccupied with watching the two girls run through the crowd, and, as such, was in mid-frown when a young woman turned from the table, two glasses of punch in hand, and collided with his shoulder.
The glasses of punch tumbled from her hands and shattered upon the hardwood floor, splashing the fruity drink over the skirts of her ivory gown.
“How— What—”
All eyes turned toward them, but Darcy was concerned with only one set of eyes—those of Miss Elizabeth Bennet. Those fine eyes glared back at him and he swallowed hard.
“Miss Bennet— I do apologize.”
The young woman’s chest heaved with anger, and her cheeks were bright with embarrassment. He had wished for an occasion to speak to her, to offer his apologies again in the hope of easing the sting of the words he had said at the Meryton Assembly, but it seemed he would be apologizing for an entirely different reason.
Two maids rushed forward to clean up the mess, but Elizabeth bent to assist in gathering up the broken glass. Darcy did the same, hoping that she would look at him, but she was singularly focused upon her task.
“Miss Bennet— I am sorry, I did not see you there—”
“This seems to be a common theme for you,” she said shortly. “I would question your skills of observation, but I’m sure I would be more correct in assuming that you do not consider those you deem ‘beneath you’ to be of much consequence.”
He was taken aback by her words, spoken as they were with vehemence and scorn.
“And how have you come to such a conclusion?”
He plucked a piece of glass from the sticky puddle and placed it upon a square of linen that one of the maids had set out to collect the shards of broken glass.
Her gaze flickered to him and then back to the glass as she selected another large piece. “I have heard about your true nature, and I can guess for myself how someone like me might fall under your scrutiny,” she replied. “Or lack thereof.”
She dropped the glass she had collected into the linen and stood abruptly. “I do hope you enjoy your evening, Mr. Darcy.”
Shocked and teetering on the edge of outrage at such an accusation, he did the same. “Miss Bennet— I would know how you have come to such a conclusion.”
She turned and glared at him. “Would you?”
“I would. As we are not well acquainted, I believe I should know the source of your accusations.”
Her eyebrow rose. “Very well. It is Mr. George Wickham,” she said.
He could not hide his reaction, and Elizabeth smiled with a hint of what Darcy suspected was triumph at catching him off guard.
“I see you recall his name.”
“Very well,” he said evenly.
“Then this accusation will not come as a surprise.”
Darcy was suddenly very aware of the guests nearby who were pretending not to listen to their conversation. Elizabeth, however, seemed to relish his discomfort.
“From George Wickham? Not at all. From you? Most certainly. But I see that you believe so ill of me from one brief interaction that you are ready to follow the word of a man like George Wickham… Whatever you believe you know of him, it is false.”
Now it was Elizabeth who seemed uncomfortable, but she lifted her chin and did not look away.
“I must caution you,” Darcy continued, “in the strongest manner possible, to stay away from George Wickham.”
“And why is that? Because I might learn more secrets about Fitzwilliam Darcy that he does not wish anyone to know?”
Darcy shook his head, and bit back a bitter laugh. “No, Miss Bennet. It is because I do not wish for Mr. Wickham to harm anyone else with his deceptions.”
“We shall see,” Elizabeth snapped. She turned away and disappeared into the crowd, leaving Darcy to wonder if he had, indeed, missed his chance to interrupt Mr. Wickham’s schemes. His former friend had wasted no time in pulling another unsuspecting person into his web of lies.
Somehow, the knowledge that he had brought Elizabeth Bennet onto his side rankled him even further.
Wickham must be stopped before he attempts to ruin another innocent life.
OceanofPDF.com

10
Elizabeth
T
he proposal that Jane, Elizabeth, and their mother had been expecting would come from the Netherfield Ball never materialized, and though Jane attempted to hide her disappointment, Elizabeth knew that she felt it keenly.
Mr. Bingley had, of course, been a wonderful host and had partnered with each of the Bennet sisters at least once upon the dance floor. The rest of the time he spent not far from Jane’s side. To anyone who would have seen them, they might have already guessed that they were engaged to be married, but an official proposal had not yet been made.
Mrs. Bennet, however, made no secret of her frustration, and had threatened on more than one occasion that she would march back to Netherfield Park and demand that a proposal be made without delay.
Thankfully, their mama was more prone to talking about engaging in such embarrassing activities than she was to actually performing them.
While Jane might have been perfectly agreeable to waiting for the ‘right moment,’ as Elizabeth had tried to persuade her was Mr. Bingley’s reason for delay, Mrs. Bennet’s constant reminder of how the absence of a proposal could be seen as a slight against Jane herself… and the family as a whole.
Their mother was, of course, being unnecessarily dramatic, but that could not be helped.
Elizabeth, on the other hand, was preoccupied with her interaction with Mr. Darcy. His rudeness at their collision, and the subsequent warning for her to stay away from Mr. Wickham—his words tumbled in her mind, and she did not know what to believe.
She did not wish to believe that Mr. Wickham might be lying to her. He had been so sincere, so wounded—and Mr. Darcy had been none of those things. He did not even seem contrite or regretful that such a thing would have happened. If there were no truth to Mr. Wickham’s words, why did Mr. Darcy not argue against them, or protest his innocence?
But would that have convinced her?
She frowned at her own thoughts.
“What is it, Lizzy?”
“Hm?”
Jane’s question caught her off guard.
“You are frowning at your book again.”
Elizabeth straightened her shoulders and sat up a little straighter in her chair. “Oh.”
Jane looked at her expectantly.
“It is nothing,” Elizabeth protested.
“I thought you enjoyed your time at the ball,” Jane said. “Did something happen?”
Elizabeth let out a heavy sigh. “I spoke to Mr. Darcy again,” she said.
Jane’s eyes widened. “You did not say so before.”
“It was nothing,” Elizabeth said.
“If it were nothing you would not be thinking of it now,” Jane observed. “Tell me what happened.”
“A simple accident, he caused me to break two glasses—clumsy, really. But he advised me to keep my distance from Mr. Wickham.”
“From Mr. Wickham?” Jane said incredulously. “After what you told me of their past?”
Elizabeth nodded. “I was in disbelief that he could be so callous, but I suppose I should not have been surprised.”
“No, indeed,” Jane murmured. “I have not spoken to Mr. Bingley about it, but I shall if you wish me to? Perhaps he knows something more? He and Mr. Darcy have been friends for many years—”
“No, do not trouble yourself,” Elizabeth said quickly. She did not wish for Mr. Bingley’s involvement. She had already begun to doubt the gentleman’s character for keeping a friend such as Mr. Darcy so close to his heart. It was not for her to comment upon the company a gentleman kept, but that did not stand in the way of her suspicion.
“I do hope that Mr. Darcy’s friendship with Mr. Bingley speaks more to his character than to Mr. Bingley,” Jane said. “He is kind and generous, and I can only suspect that there is something more to Mr. Darcy that may not be visible on the surface.”
“Are you saying that I should disregard everything that Mr. Wickham has suffered at Mr. Darcy’s hands?”
Jane’s expression was pained. “I did not say that.”
“But you did,” Elizabeth argued. “That I should take the fact that Mr. Darcy is friends with Mr. Bingley as a sign that it is all a fabrication?”
“You do not
know
Mr. Wickham, Lizzy—”
Elizabeth closed her book and met her sister’s frustrated gaze. “No, I do not,” she said. “But that does not mean that I cannot believe him. He has been nothing but truthful to me.”
Jane bit her lip, but did not respond.
Frustrated, Elizabeth set her book aside and rose from her seat. She was still somewhat shaken by Mr. Darcy’s confrontational words, but perhaps she had only been upset about the ruin that had been made of her dress.
No. She was right to be outraged. Mr. Darcy had harmed a gentleman that she cared for—and his truthful admission of his fear that his plans for the future might be ruined again by the very same man who had wounded him so deeply in the past had touched her.
“Lizzy, do not be cross with me,” Jane said. “I only meant to remind you that you have only heard of this abuse from Mr. Wickham himself. Did you ask Mr. Darcy to speak his side of the story?”
“To see if he might agree? What gentleman would admit to such an abuse of someone who had been so close to them?”
“Only that if Mr. Wickham is correct, perhaps there may be a chance to rectify their relationship, or repair some of the damage that was done—”
Elizabeth had not considered that she might have been able to act as an agent of change in this situation, but Mr. Wickham had not seemed amenable to such a thing at the time of his confession.
Would he appreciate such a suggestion? Or would that only make matters worse?
“Lizzy—”
Whatever Jane was about to say was interrupted by the clatter of hoofbeats as a rider careened into the courtyard. The horse’s hooves skidded in the gravel as the rider hauled back on the reins and jumped from the saddle.
“Who is it?” Jane gasped. No one had ever come to Longbourn in such a rush.
Elizabeth went to the window, and her throat tightened as she watched Mr. Wickham throw the reins over the horse’s neck and allow it to graze on the grass that grew beside the garden gate. He strode toward the house, his jaw set, and his stare determined.
He went directly to the front door and knocked loudly—the sound echoed through the house and Elizabeth rushed to the door to reach it before Mrs. Hill could bustle into the foyer.
She opened the door and was surprised to see that Mr. Wickham’s stern expression did not fade.
“Mr. Wickham,” she said. “I am so pleased to see you— I had wondered if you were ill.”
“Ill?”
“I had hoped that I would see you at the Netherfield Ball,” she replied. “Mr. Denny and Mr. Tanner seemed convinced that you would be in attendance.”
Mr. Wickham’s smile was somehow sad as he shook his head. “I did hope that I would be able to brave it, but I could not. Not even to see you…”
“Will you come in?” Elizabeth asked. “I can have some tea brought—”
“I thank you,” he said. “However, I have come to see your father.”
Jane’s gasp from the parlor doorway startled Elizabeth into action and she opened the door wider to allow the officer to step into the foyer.
“I shall see if he is available,” she stammered.
“I shall go,” Jane said quickly. She smiled at Mr. Wickham and dashed past the pair and disappeared down the corridor that led to Mr. Bennet’s office.
It was strange to be standing so near to him—the last time they had stood so close, he had kissed her, and her lips tingled with the memory of it.
“Did you have an enjoyable evening at the ball?” he asked.
“I did,” Elizabeth said. “However, the evening was somewhat tarnished by the most disagreeable gentleman of our acquaintance.”
Mr. Wickham chuckled. “I see. And what did Mr. Darcy have to say?”
“He told me to be wary of you,” Elizabeth blurted out.
“Indeed,” the gentleman murmured. “And what did you tell him?”
“Mr. Wickham,” Jane said from behind them. “My father will see you— This way please.”
Mr. Wickham’s smile was brief, and Elizabeth had to stop herself from reaching out to press her hand against his arm as he passed her.
As he disappeared down the corridor, Elizabeth took a shaking breath and tried to calm her racing heart.
He had come to speak to her father.
But that could only mean one thing.
Jane rushed down the corridor and grabbed hold of Elizabeth’s hand. “Come back to the parlor,” she said. “I have asked Mrs. Hill to bring us some tea… When Mr. Wickham is finished speaking to Papa, they may join us. Should I tell Mama?”
“Not yet,” Elizabeth whispered. “Jane— Do you really think?”
“Why else would he be here?”
Elizabeth allowed her sister to pull her to the parlor and she tried her best to rationalize what had happened. What
was
happening.
“Do you really—”
“Had he mentioned marriage before?” Jane asked.
She paced in front of the window, her fingers lacing and unlacing as she walked. Elizabeth had never seen her sister so agitated.
“I— that is to say, not directly. Though he did speak of a future—”
“One that included you?”
“I—”
He had not.
Not directly. Not explicitly.
But it had been implied… Had it not?
Tea was delivered by a stern-faced Mrs. Hill.
“What is it?” Jane asked.
“Nothing,” the housekeeper replied. “But I do not envy whoever is in the study with your father.”
Apprehension gripped Elizabeth’s spine. “Why is that?” she choked out.
Mrs. Hill shrugged. “He doesn’t sound pleased.”
“Oh, dear,” Jane murmured.
The housekeeper left them alone in the parlor, and Elizabeth’s hands twisted in her lap. If Mr. Wickham had come to speak to her father about marriage, and it was not going well— What could that mean?
No. She knew precisely what that meant.
Jane poured tea for both of them, but Eliozabeth could not be coaxed into drinking it, nor did she take any tarts or shortbread. Her mouth was dry, and she felt ill.
The only hope she could have was that Mr. Wickham and her father would appear in the doorway with smiles upon their faces and an accord between them… But if Elizabeth knew her father—
The slam of the front door made both of them jump.
“Lizzy!”
Jane’s horrified gasp did nothing to quell Elizabeth’s worry. The red of Mr. Wickham’s uniform was bright against the gray day as he strode toward his horse who grazed patiently at the garden gate.
Without thinking, Elizabeth jumped up from her chair and rushed out of the room. Jane called after her, but Elizabeth’s pace did not falter as she wrenched open the door and ran into the courtyard.
Mr. Wickham swung up into the saddle as she approached, and Elizabeth bit her lip to keep from crying out.
“Where are you going,” she choked out.
“Back to the garrison,” he snapped. “I must apologize, Elizabeth, it seems that all of my plans are for naught.”
“Plans—”
“I had come here to ask for your father’s permission to court you. But I do not think he likes me. I have been instructed to stay away from Longbourn and not to see you.”
Elizabeth’s mouth dropped open. “But—”
He leaned down toward her. “I cannot bear the thought of it,” he said. “Not to see you again…”
He touched her cheek gently and Elizabeth fought the urge to glance back at the house. Jane would be watching from the parlor window.
“Will you come to see me? Will you come to the White Horse Inn to see me?”
“I—”
What was he asking? Was he asking her to run away with him? Without her father’s permission?
But worst of all…
Was she actually considering it?
“I will wait for you there, tomorrow…” he whispered. He took hold of her hand and pulled it to his lips to press a kiss against her fingers. “Please. Elizabeth, I beg you, do not let me have loved you in vain—”
Love?
Had he just admitted that he was in love with her?
Elizabeth’s heart beat strangely in her chest.
“Yes,” she gasped. “I will meet you.”
His smile was brief, but joyful and he kissed her fingers again, and then released his hold on her.
“Until tomorrow,” he whispered and straightened in the saddle. He took hold of the reins and dug his heels into his horse’s flanks. Elizabeth stood in the courtyard, stunned, as he rose away and disappeared from view.
“Lizzy, what happened?” Jane ran across the courtyard toward her and Elizabeth fell against her sister.
“Papa did not like him,” she whispered.
“Oh… I am sorry. Perhaps it is for the best—”
“I do not wish to speak of it,” Elizabeth said.
Jane nodded gravely. “Will you speak to Papa?”
“I do not think so. I cannot imagine he will have anything to say to me that I should like to hear.”
“Oh, Lizzy… did you love him?”
“I do not wish to speak of it,” Elizabeth whispered.
Did she love him?
“Come inside,” Jane said softly. “It is cold, and you do not have your shawl.”
Elizabeth nodded dumbly as Jane wrapped her arm around her waist and led her back to the house. Everything felt numb, from the tips of her toes to the end of her nose—she did not feel the cold. Only the dull ache of heartbreak.
The only thought that beat in her mind was that her father did not wish to see her happy.
He had said on many occasions that it would take an extraordinary gentleman to make him agree to any union… A union that would take her away from Longbourn.
He would never agree to just any suitor. But would anyone ever be good enough for her in his eyes?
H
er father did not emerge from his study for supper, and when Elizabeth had finally worked up the courage to speak to him, she was denied entry.
Stunned and angry, she had gone up to bed with a heavy heart and a lump in her throat.
She had agreed to meet Mr. Wickham in Meryton… and she had hoped that speaking to her father would have solidified her decision. But if he did not wish to speak about it, then there was no other course of action.
Jane was kind, but Elizabeth could not help but wonder if her dear sister’s concern was merely to hide the fact that she was relieved that her engagement to Mr. Bingley would be of the utmost importance. Mr. Bennet had nothing but praise for Mr. Bingley’s character and manners since the moment of their first meeting and the fact that he had dismissed Mr. Wickham so quickly did not sit well.
Elizabeth did her best to pretend that nothing was amiss.
Jane was the only other person in the house who knew that Mr. Wickham had come to see Mr. Bennet, and Elizabeth had begged her not to say anything.
She went up to bed early and when Jane came up with her candle, Elizabeth pretended to be asleep. It was easier to avoid conversation on the subject than it was to consider what her sister might have to say. It was clear enough that Jane upheld their father’s decision, and Elizabeth could not face such disloyalty. She was happy for Jane and Mr. Bingley’s affections—why could her sister not be happy for her?
She listened as Jane prepared for bed and blew out her candle, but as Jane’s breathing deepened into sleep, Elizabeth lay awake, staring at the wall.
In the morning, she would find some reason to go into Meryton to meet Mr. Wickham.
T
he entrance to the White Horse Inn was not on the main road that cut through Meryton, but rather on a side street that was removed from the view of passers by. A cunning choice, and one that meant that Elizabeth would not have to worry about avoiding curious stares as she entered the establishment.
Mr. Wickham was seated at a table, dressed in a more informal jacket and trousers; she only recognized him by the twist of his smile and the haphazard curls that he brushed away from his forehead when he caught sight of her.
His regimental jacket was nowhere to be seen, but any questions Elizabeth might have had were swept away as he rushed toward her and caught her elbow.
“I did not think you would come,” he whispered.
“I could not think of any place I would rather be,” she replied in a hushed tone.
His smile was broad. “Will you come upstairs? I have rented a room. I have wine, bread, and cheese—are you hungry?”
A bolt of fear lashed through her, but she straightened her shoulders and nodded. “I am, actually,” she replied. She felt safe with Mr. Wickham. He would do nothing to harm her.
They walked up the stairs together, and Elizabeth tried her best to ignore the fact that the innkeeper’s gaze followed them closely. She did not recognize any of the people drinking and eating in the inn, nor the innkeeper, and she was grateful for the minimal amount of anonymity she could claim.
“You need not fear their opinions when you are with me, Elizabeth,” Mr. Wickham said as he laid a hand upon the small of her back to nudge her down the corridor.
Elizabeth tried to smile, but she could feel it falter as he opened a door and pushed it open.
“Will you come in?”
Elizabeth bit her lip and summoned the bravery she had found when she had first departed Longbourn to propel her over the threshold and into the room. The narrow bed was laid with a threadbare comforter, but there was a fire burning in the grate and as Mr. Wickham had promised, a plate of cheese and bread and a flagon of wine had been set out upon the table. He strode to the table quickly and filled two glasses. He downed the contents of one and refilled it before holding one out to her.
Elizabeth took the glass with a shaking hand and brought it to her lips as he tilted his glass back and drained it in one gulp.
“Does anyone know you are here?” he asked.
Elizabeth shook her head. “I came in secret.”
“You are a brave girl,” he said. “My own brave Elizabeth.”
He set down the empty glass and Elizabeth took a quick sip of the wine. It was rough and cheap and she choked a little as she swallowed it.
“Why did you ask me to come here?”
Mr. Wickham smiled as he came toward her. “Is it not plain to you, Elizabeth?”
It was… and it was not.
“I came to Longbourn to ask your father for your hand in marriage. A request that he denied most haughtily. He did not believe that I would be able to keep you in the manner you deserved. But he does not know me. He does not know what I might do or what I might become—”
“My father is only concerned for my welfare,” Elizabeth said, immediately feeling the need to defend her father. “In time, perhaps he might change his mind…”
Mr. Wickham laid his hand upon her cheek and looked deep into her eyes. “I do not have time,” he said. “With Mr. Darcy working to undermine everything I have built for myself, I must be swift in my decisions. That is why I must leave Hertfordshire.”
“Leave?” Elizabeth gasped.
“Indeed. But I will not go alone, my love. If you agree to come with me— To be my wife—”
“George—”
Her whispered reply was almost an agreement. She was stunned by his declaration and the request that had followed hard upon.
“Say yes. Say yes and come away with me. Come with me and be Mrs. Wickham.”
“But where would we go?” Elizabeth asked desperately. “What would you do for money—”
“You needn’t worry about a single thing.” Mr. Wickham’s other hand was on her waist, pulling her close, and Elizabeth leaned her cheek against his palm.
“Will you stay with me?
“I—”
A moment’s bravery. If she left Hertfordshire with him, her life would change forever.
She closed her eyes. “I will.”
Mr. Wickham’s mouth pressed against hers and Elizabeth felt the last of her resolve crumble away as his arms tightened around her.
OceanofPDF.com

11
Darcy
T
he library was usually his place of refuge, but since Caroline had discovered his habit of retreating there in the late afternoon to avoid any guests and while away the house before supper, it had become less of a hiding place, and more of a spectacle.
In the days that followed the Netherfield Ball, Darcy would, more often than not, retreat to his hideaway amid the books and discover Caroline already there—settled into a chair with a book open in her lap.
This day was no different.
The moment he stepped foot in the room, he knew that he was not alone.
The faint remnant of Caroline’s favored perfume lingered in the air, and Darcy’s nose wrinkled as he walked between the shelves toward the fireplace and the chair he usually occupied.
Caroline, elegantly dressed as always, was seated in the chair. A book lay open in her lap, but it was easy to tell that she had not been reading. A jug of wine and a half-empty glass stood upon a low table at her elbow.
“It has been almost six days since my brother gave that ball,” she said dryly. “And what have we to show for it?”
“I do not take your meaning,” Darcy replied.
Her carefully sculpted brow rose as she looked up at him. “Do you not?”
He leaned against a bookshelf and regarded her carefully. Caroline was an intelligent woman, and when she was focused on something, it could be dangerous to get in her way.
“My brother was meant to propose to that Bennet girl, was he not?”
“Miss Jane Bennet,” Darcy corrected her, stunned that she would not remember Jane’s name. “You have invited her to tea for the past several weeks with astonishing regularity.”
Of course it was a purposeful omission, meant to wound someone who was not present. A needless slight.
“Indeed,” Caroline sighed. “A tiresome exercise, but one that Charles insisted upon. I would not have looked upon her twice if it were not for Charles’ demands.”
“I had thought you were friends,” Darcy commented. “It seemed to be so.”
Caroline’s sneer was answer enough. “I have heard that you are in favor of the match,” she said.
“I am. I do not see a reason not to be.”
Caroline closed her book with a
snap
and set it aside. “This is the problem, Mr. Darcy. For, how are Louisa and I meant to convince our brother of his mistakes if you are supportive in his foolish errand?”
“I do not consider it foolish,” Darcy said. “In fact, I believe it to be one of the better decisions he has made in a very long time.”
Caroline’s laughter was bitter.
“You cannot be serious…” She paused to stare at him. “But you are. Mr. Darcy I am aghast. I had thought I could count upon you as an ally in this.”
“An ally.”
“Indeed,” Caroline exclaimed. “I had hoped that you could prevail upon my brother to see some sense!”
“I believe him to be very sensible,” Darcy said.
Caroline rolled her eyes and refilled her wine glass. “Then I shall not ask you to do anything,” she said. “Just promise me that you will not deter my brother from entertaining any other opportunities that might come along…”
“Opportunities.”
He was being purposefully obtuse, and he could see that Caroline was beginning to become irritated with him. Perhaps she would leave.
“Of course,” Caroline exclaimed. “Louisa and I have several young ladies in mind who would be an excellent match for Charles.”
Darcy knew without a doubt that whatever Caroline and Louisa had planned, their interest was purely in their own feelings and had nothing to do with what would actually be good for their brother.
“He deserves better than a country mouse from a penniless family.”
Caroline’s smile was sly, and Darcy felt certain that she was attempting to flirt with him. She had made her play for his attentions on several occasions, but knowing Caroline as well as he did meant that it would be impossible for him to even consider her as a possible partner.
No, indeed.
“Next you will be telling me that you are in love with one of her horrid sisters,” Caroline laughed. “The youngest is a terror, but I have heard that the middle daughter is just as dour as you. She enjoys composing dry concertos and dreary sonatas on the pianoforte. I cannot imagine anything more horrid.”
She took a sip of wine and her eyes widened. “Oh, Mr. Darcy, surely not Miss Eliza? She is sharp tongued and some have said she is a quick wit, but I cannot find any pleasure in her company at all. Argumentative and spiteful—I am sure you will agree. You have been on the wrong side of her wrath on several occasions now!”
Darcy’s jaw tightened at Caroline’s mention of Elizabeth and her continued dislike of him.
“Indeed.”
“Oh, no,” Caroline pouted. “Have I wounded you to bring up Elizabeth Bennet?”
“No,” he said.
“Wonderful,” she sighed. “It would be unfortunate, indeed, if I were not able to mention the young lady in your presence. If my brother is successful in his endeavors, I can only imagine that Miss Eliza will be a constant presence here. It would be quite terrible for you.”
He did not wish to give Caroline the satisfaction of seeing his discomfort, but it was difficult to keep his emotions under control. He had to speak to Charles. He had not yet told his friend about the conversation he had had with Elizabeth Bennet, or how he had warned her away from Mr. Wickham.
If his experience with Georgiana had prepared him for anything, it was that young ladies of a determined disposition did not like to be told what to do. And Elizabeth Bennet was, most certainly, a young lady in possession of a determined disposition.
As calm and lovely as Georgiana was, she had certainly shown her own particular strength in frustrating ways over the years. How could Miss Elizabeth Bennet be any different? He would be disappointed if she were meek and biddable.
Very suddenly, Darcy wished to be as far away from Caroline as possible. He needed to find Charles.
“I shall not keep you from your reading,” he said as he turned away.
“Mr. Darcy! Have I said something to offend you?”
He knew that she was not sincere in her inquiry, and so he did not slow his pace as he strode from the room and went in search of his friend. Did Charles know how perilously close he was to losing his ability to choose his bride? If his sisters had their way, Jane Bennet would be badgered into abandoning any affection for him within a fortnight. He had already wasted too much time in consideration and nervousness.
It was not unlike Charles to procrastinate, but if he was not careful, he would be outmaneuvered before he realized what was happening.
Darcy had searched the house, and exhausted every option of where his friend could be in the hours before dinner. He was on his way to the stables when he came upon Charles walking in the garden. He was without his jacket, or his hat, and a light rain had begun to fall, dampening his fair hair and causing his cheeks to redden.
“You are quite a sight,” Darcy said as he approached. “You sisters will never forgive you if you catch a fever.”
“Indeed they would not,” Charles said with some chagrin. “And they would demand that we return to London at once so that I might avail myself of some doctor or other that their friends have recommended.”
“Of course.”
“What brings you to the garden?” Charles asked as they turned back toward the house.
“Looking for you,” Darcy admitted easily. “I have been meaning to speak to you—”
“If it is about Jane Bennet, you must know that I have been lecturing myself all day for my lack of haste in this matter. I will propose. I shall.”
“And why the hesitation?”
“It is not hesitation,” Charles snapped, but then he softened. “It is nerves. What if she rejects my proposal? I should have to quit Netherfield Park at once for I could not bear to be near her if she did not accept.”
“Spoken like a desperate man,” Darcy said with some surprise. Charles was prone to exaggeration, but he had never seen his friend so consumed by emotion as he was at that moment. “But I do not believe that you have anything to fear. From what I have seen of you together, it is clear that the young lady’s affections are as sincere as your own.”
“Are you certain of this?” Charles’ expression was hopeful and Darcy could not help but smile.
“I am, indeed,” Darcy said.
“I shall go to Longbourn tomorrow morning,” Charles said firmly. “I have her father’s permission to court her…”
“Then the only obstacle is yourself,” Darcy said.
“You will come with me, of course,” Charles said. “Perhaps you will be able to speak to Miss Elizabeth Bennet—”
“I think not,” he said.
“Oh.” Charles grimaced. “Was your last conversation really so terrible?”
“I told her that she must be wary of Mr. Wickham.”
Now it was Charles’ turn to laugh. “Of course you did. And did she agree to your demands?”
“Certainly not.”
Charles shook his head and rubbed a hand through his rain-dampened hair, scattering droplets of water as he did so. “Then you must come with me, for I believe you owe the young lady more than one apology by now.”
“Perhaps.”
“Perhaps,” Charles snorted. “Indeed you
must
. I know you far too well to believe that you undertook your admonishments with any delicacy.”
“But I had to tell her—”
“And did you tell her?” Charles demanded. “Did you tell her what Mr. Wickham has done? Why is it that he speaks so poorly of you at every opportunity?”
Darcy shook his head and looked out over the gardens. “I did not.”
“Tomorrow morning, before we go to Longbourn, we shall make a detour into Meryton.”
“Why?”
Charles’ expression was stern. “To demand an audience with Colonel Forster. You have left this too long.”
“But Charles—”
“No,” Charles snapped. “It is high time that the Colonel knew the type of officers that were under his command. If he is any gentleman at all, and I know him to be one, he will dismiss Mr. Wickham from his post immediately. His presence is a stain on the regiment.”
“That it is,” Darcy agreed.
As much as Charles had been stalling on his proposal, Darcy had been stalled in his actions when it came to George Wickham. Despite the animosity between them, the memory of their youth and the promises he had made to his father before his death were still fresh in Darcy’s mind.
How could he betray so many years of brotherhood? So many years of loyalty…
But everything good about those years had been undone in a moment.
And if George had his way,
he
would be Master of Pemberley, and Darcy would be the one seeking a commission from a country militia.
“In the morning, I shall see it done,” Darcy said. “I cannot allow George Wickham to continue to carry out his manipulations on more unsuspecting victims.”
“And let us hope that Miss Bennet has not fallen prey to his lies.”
It was as though Charles could hear his thoughts. Darcy’s concern that Elizabeth had fallen under Mr. Wickham’s charming spell, as his own sister had, plagued him with endless barbs of guilt. He could only hope that it was not too late.
T
he ride to the garrison seemed shorter, but Darcy suspected it was his apprehension that made the journey seem so. The Colonel was an affable sort of gentleman, but he had little doubt that the man was always in such a mood. He would not have risen so far in the militia ranks without some expressions of temper.
He imagined that when he revealed Mr. Wickham’s true nature that the Colonel’s reaction would be anything but jovial.
The garrison yard was crowded with officers performing drills with their weapons, marching to the shout of another higher ranking officer, and others standing in small groups watching.
He did not see Mr. Wickham among them.
They were met by two officers who stopped them and demanded to know their business at the garrison. They took hold of Darcy’s gelding’s reins as he slid from the saddle.
“Where is the Colonel?” Darcy asked. “We must speak with him.”
“Mr. Bingley,” the second officer said brightly. “We were very pleased to be invited to your ball. It was a wonderful evening.”
Mr. Bingley’s smile was broad and bright as he thanked the young man. “You are most welcome. Now, where is the Colonel? We have urgent business to discuss with him.”
The second man, clearly still in awe of Mr. Bingley, pointed toward a single story building across the grounds. Potted trees flanked the doorway and Darcy straightened his shoulders as they took their leave and strode across the shallow mud of the parade ground.
“Always a delight to meet someone who appreciates one's efforts,” Mr. Bingley said.
“Indeed, Caroline and Louisa will be thrilled to hear that you are such a popular figure in Meryton.”
“We shall tell them nothing,” Charles snapped. “They do not need to know that we were here. I will not have gossip spreading about our interest in Mr. Wickham
or
the garrison.”
“Agreed,” Darcy muttered.
Whether that would be possible was another matter entirely.
The surprised officer who opened the door when Charles knocked announced them with a shaking voice before the Colonel barked his welcome. He stood aside to allow them to enter the house, and Darcy was stunned by the arrangement of the space, although he did not know what he should have expected.
The Colonel’s garrison office was less of a formal space than a home away from home. It was clear enough that the man was used to being on his own. The office featured imported carpets, fine crystal decanters and glasses for spirits, portraits of the royal family adorned one wall, and a display of medals and commendations that would make any soldier envious was laid out upon a nearby table in a place of honor near the large stone fireplace.
The little house was comfortable and Darcy could see a bed and washstand in the room adjacent to the space that housed the Colonel’s desk and all of his papers and dispatches. Surely, Mrs. Forster did not stay here with him. It was a bachelor’s space, that much was obvious.
“Mr. Bingley,” the Colonel said. “It is good of you to come to the garrison after hosting the officers at your most excellent ball. How might I assist you on this fine day?”
It was not a fine day, and rain clouds threatened from all directions, but Darcy did not correct him.
“You are most generous, Colonel Forster,” Mr. Bingley said. “But it is not I who would seek your assistance.” He stepped aside to allow Darcy to take the floor, and Darcy took a quick breath as the large man behind the desk looked him up and down.
The Colonel’s dark eyes narrowed and he shifted his bulk in the chair, leaning one elbow upon the desk. “And who might this be?”
“Fitzwilliam Darcy, sir,” Darcy answered before Charles could say anything. “I do apologize that we have not become acquainted as yet.”
The Colonel’s eyebrow rose.
“We seek your assistance, sir,” Mr. Bingley interjected. “My friend Mr. Darcy has discovered the presence of an old… acquaintance… among your garrison officers.”
“You wish to request that he come to visit you,” the Colonel said with a quick smile. “Of course. I grant such things on many occasions— What is the lad’s name?”
“I am afraid not,” Darcy said quickly. “Although I am certain your men are grateful for your generosity.”
“Then what is it?”
Darcy shifted on his feet and looked the Colonel in the eye. “The officer in question… Mr. George Wickham.”
The Colonels’ expression changed and a stab of doubt pierced through Darcy’s resolve.
“I see. And Mr. Wickham is your friend?”
“No,” Darcy said quickly. “No, indeed. I meant to warn you of his character. It is unbecoming of an officer of the garrison—”
The Colonel held up a hand to stop Darcy from speaking further. His hands tightened into fists at his sides as he waited for the Colonel to speak again.
Silence fell in the room as the Colonel shuffled through the papers on his desk until he found a dispatch that seemed to have been hastily written and sealed. The paper was muddied and torn.
The Colonel took his time to read what was written upon it before he held it up toward them.
“Mr. Wickham has deserted his post,” the Colonel said flatly. “Once again I will ask if you are friends with this man? Are you harboring him at your estate, Mr. Bingley? Tell me at once that I may send officers to collect him.”
“Certainly not,” Charles spluttered. “I would never willingly allow that scoundrel through my door.”
The Colonel’s attention turned to Mr. Darcy. “And you, sir? Do you know of Mr. Wickham’s whereabouts?”
“Indeed, I do not,” Darcy snapped. “I had come here to inform you of the man’s deficient character, and it seems he has shown his true colors before I could do so.”
The Colonel slammed the paper down upon the desk and folded his arms over his broad chest.
“Thank you for your visit, gentlemen, but I have urgent business to attend to.”
“Of course,” Mr. Bingley said. They bowed to the Colonel and departed the little house as quickly as they were able. Darcy could not decide how he felt—relief tinged with an overwhelming sense of dread filled his chest.
“Good news,” Charles said as he swung up into the saddle of his waiting horse.
“I do not know if I agree with you,” Darcy said as he stepped into his stirrups. “If Mr. Wickham has abandoned his post, it can only mean that he is on the run once more.”
“The farther he is from Hertfordshire, the better I shall feel,” Mr. Bingley said. “Surely, you must feel the same.”
Darcy did not reply.
The dread that had been only a whisper when they departed the Colonel’s office had taken hold of him, though he did not know why…
Mr. Wickham’s departure from the garrison was the outcome he had sought, but there was something wrong, and he would not rest easy until he knew what had caused the man’s sudden flight from his duties.
OceanofPDF.com

12
Elizabeth
T
he fire in the grate burned low, and Elizabeth sat upon the bed with her knees pulled up under her chin, and the coverlet draped over her shoulders.
Noise from the rooms around hers and from the lower floor filtered through the walls and the floor and she flinched every time there was a shout or a loud burst of laughter.
She was alone, wondering how she could have made such a decision so blithely.
George had promised her many things, and a smile tugged at her lips at the memory of his kisses and the whispered promises he had made.
A letter lay upon the bed in front of her.
“Meet me in London, my love. I shall wait for you at the King’s Hart on Barrow Street. If you do not come, I will know that all of my hopes have been in vain. Come to London and be my wife…”
Elizabeth’s heart pounded in her chest as she read the letter for the seventh time. Could it really be true? It had to be. He had promised it. He had said that he loved her with such earnest words—and she believed him. How could she not?
He had asked her to be brave and forsake her father’s decision to be with him. Without her father’s permission to marry she would be penniless. But her meager dowry could be easily replaced when he took up the position that Colonel Forster had secured for him. She had been so proud of him when he told her of his new posting.
She slid off the bed and splashed cold water from the wash basin over her face.
It was not yet dark, but she did not know how long she had slept, or how long it had been since Mr. Wickham had departed.
It was not easy to shake off the worry that hung upon her shoulders, but she did her best to push it aside as she dressed and prepared to leave the inn. With her bonnet in place, and her shawl clutched tightly around her shoulders, Elizabeth left the inn with her chin high and refused to make eye contact with the innkeeper or any of the patrons in the tavern.
Mr. Wickham’s note was tucked into her chemise, close to her heart and safe from her sisters’ prying eyes. She walked quickly through Meryton and stopped in the shops she had promised to visit to collect some items that would keep Lydia and Kitty distracted.
Mrs. Bennet would not ask any questions, she was far too distracted by Jane and Mr. Bingley’s impending engagement. Elizabeth hoped with all her heart that the gentleman would act upon his very obvious affections. Jane’s heart would be broken if anything were to happen otherwise, and Elizabeth was not certain how she would recover.
Guilt weighed upon her as she considered what might happen if such a thing came to pass and she were not there to comfort her sister.
But she could not deny Mr. Wickham’s request—the dull ache between her legs was a reminder that if she stayed in Hertfordshire that her decision would lead to the ruin of not just herself, but her entire family.
She bit her lip as tears pricked at her lashes and she blinked the unwanted tears away.
It would not come to that.
She would go to London and meet her darling George. They would be married and her father would forgive her for taking her future into her own hands.
She must follow her heart.
But first, she would have to go to London. Then she could tell Jane everything that had happened and how she had been swept away, body and soul, by George Wickham.
“L
izzy, there you are!”
Jane rushed out of the house to meet her as she walked into the courtyard.
“You have missed a most exciting afternoon,” she gushed.
“Did I?” Elizabeth said. “I lost all notion of time while I was in Meryton—”
But Jane was not listening to her and Elizabeth swallowed some of her nervousness as her sister spoke of Mr. Bingley’s visit.
“And Mr. Darcy was with him, such a dour gentleman. He seemed somewhat disappointed that you were not at home…”
“Are you certain it was a disappointment,” Elizabeth laughed. “I should think he would be relieved not to have to speak to me.”
“It did not seem so,” Jane said thoughtfully. “And he did ask after your health no less than three times…”
“But Mr. Bingley came to see you,” Elizabeth prompted. She did not wish to hear about Mr. Darcy at all. “And?”
Jane sighed heavily. “And we had a very short visit during which Mama exclaimed about the ball, and then Lydia and Kitty demanded that he host another ball for Twelfth Night…”
“Oh, dear,” Elizabeth murmured.
“Indeed.” Jane laced her arm through Elizabeth’s. “He did agree, and said that it was a splendid idea, but I was ever so embarrassed. I do wish you could have been here. I do believe Mr. Darcy would have attempted another apology.”
Elizabeth made a face. “Do you believe so? I think perhaps he would have had more suggestions as to whom I should speak to and who I might count among my friends. He seems to take a great interest in such things.”
“Lizzy… You cannot be angry with him forever,” Jane said with a sigh.
“I believe I shall; for just a little while longer,” Elizabeth said primly.
“As you wish, but when Mr. Bingley and I are married, you shall have to make your peace with him. He is Mr. Bingley’s dearest friend and you will not be able to avoid him on every occasion.”
“And what if I am not in Hertfordshire,” Elizabeth said suddenly. She had not meant to say it, but the words just… happened.
Jane stopped short, pulling Elizabeth to a halt. “Andy why would you not be?”
“What if I were married and my husband wished to take up a position somewhere else?”
“Where?” Jane cried.
“I do not know,” Elizabeth protested, suddenly nervous. “I was just speaking my thoughts aloud!”
“But you promised that you would be here to be a governess to my brood of children and teach them to play and sing—”
“Very ill,” Elizabeth said. “I remember.”
Jane gripped her arm tightly. “I do not know what I would do without you,” she said softly. “Promise me you were speaking in jest.”
Elizabeth forced herself to smile. “Of course I was,” she said and patted her sister’s hand reassuringly. “A joke. Lydia would have laughed to see your face.”
Jane smiled, relieved, and leaned against her sister’s shoulder.
“Come now,” Elizabeth said. “Tell me again how Mr. Bingley was dressed— did he bring flowers?”
Jane eased back into their conversation, but Elizabeth’s thoughts were distracted by the memory of George Wickham’s dark blue eyes, and the letter he had left for her.
Come to London — Be my wife.
S
o many lies.
Elizabeth prepared in haste to leave for London to visit an aunt and uncle who did not know that she was coming.
Her hasty announcement drew few comments from her mother and father, who seemed more interested in other matters than what their second eldest daughter was doing. Mr. Tanner had come from the garrison almost every day to visit Kitty, and Mrs. Bennet was glowing with happiness that another daughter might have an engagement on the horizon.
Her faith in Mr. Bingley was unwavering, and conversation around the dinner table, the parlor, and every corridor of the household revolved around those two topics.
With so much excitement in the house, it was easy for her to believe that no one would miss her presence. In fact, it seemed perfectly possible that the surprise of her unexpected marriage would be welcomed with cries of joy and happiness rather than stern looks and lectures.
With this conviction, Elizabeth packed a valise and waited for the carriage with a lightness in her heart. She was going to meet the man who had swept her away—she would be a married woman before the week was out, and when she wrote to her mother next, she would sign her name
Mrs. Wickham
.
Jane was at Netherfield Park for tea, and when the carriage arrived, Elizabeth was alone in the courtyard. The rest of her sisters seemed otherwise occupied, her mother was upstairs in her room, and Mr. Bennet had not emerged from his study in days.
Her resolve was only strengthened by this abandonment. George understood her. He would support and listen to her, and they would be stronger together.
T
he carriage ride to London seemed to fly by, and Elizabeth did not even open her book. The scenery she had watched through the carriage window so many times before seemed fresher and more beautiful than ever, and she had a smile and a kind word for everyone who spoke to her. She did not even care that it was raining. Even the clouds overhead were wonderful.
As the carriage rumbled through London, the rain grew heavier, and Elizabeth comforted herself with the knowledge that as soon as she reached the inn there would be a warm fire, the comfort of George by her side, and a hot meal awaiting her.
The carriage driver did not stop at Barrow Street, but the driver was kind enough to give her directions, and Elizabeth clutched her shawl tight around her shoulders as she made her way through the uneven streets, dodging puddles, carriages, and men on horseback who careened perilously close to her as they passed.
The King’s Hart on Barrow Street was… not what Elizabeth had expected.
The sign was brightly painted but the image of a white deer with a crown around its throat like a collar, pierced by a golden arrow, made Elizabeth shiver.
She pushed the door open, straining against the heavy wood.
The inn was quiet, and cold, and there was no fire burning in the hearth. Nervous, Elizabeth took a tentative step into the room and called out to the innkeeper.
When the man finally appeared, he seemed surprised to see her there.
“What do you need, Miss?”
“I— I am here to meet Mr. George Wickham,” she choked out. “He gave instruction that I was to meet him here.”
“No one here by that name,” the man said gruffly.
“There is a room—”
“No rooms for rent,” the man said.
“Oh…” As she looked around the empty space, her heart squeezed painfully in her chest and threatened to cut off her breath. “And this is the only King’s Hart in London?”
“The only one on Barrow Street,” the man replied. He looked at her strangely and Elizabeth bit her lip and tasted blood.
“Is there somewhere nearby that I might rent a room?” she asked plaintively.
The man’s expression softened somewhat and he gestured vaguely at the door. “Across the street, Mrs. Copeland rents rooms in her house. Tell her I sent you over.”
Elizabeth nodded and blinked back tears.
Perhaps she was just early. Perhaps he had been waylaid by other business, or securing his position so that they might have some comfort after they were married.
“And you are certain that there is no letter for me?” she asked. “For Elizabeth Bennet?”
The man shook his head. “No one leaves letters here, Miss Bennet.”
“I see,” she said. “Thank you. I shall go and see Mrs. Copeland.”
Wet, cold, and confused, Elizabeth made her way across the street to the house that the innkeeper had indicated. Mrs. Copeland was welcoming, but seemed suspicious, though she was happy enough to take what little money Elizabeth had in return for a bed for the night, and a hot meal.
Elizabeth could watch the street in front of the King’s Hart for any sign of Mr. Wickham’s arrival, and she settled in to wait. Perhaps he would come that evening, or the following morning…
Whenever he came, she would be ready.
O
ne day passed with no sign of him. She went back to the inn to enquire with the man behind the bar, just in case she had missed his arrival, but there had been no sign of a Mr. George Wickham. No letter. No word.
On the second day, Elizabeth’s despair outweighed her hope.
He was not coming.
She had no money left to give to Mrs. Copeland, and though the woman was sympathetic to her plight, Elizabeth was too ashamed to tell her the whole story.
He had promised her a wedding.
A little house with a garden in a village by the sea…
And she had believed it all. She had believed everything he had told her. And for what? She had abandoned her family, her sisters… Everything.
All of it for a lie.
Mrs. Copeland was kind enough to give her directions to Gracechurch Street, and Elizabeth walked toward her aunt and uncle’s house with the knowledge that she would have to tell her aunt the truth… Why she was in London, and what had happened between herself and Mr. Wickham.
With every step, she regretted her foolishness. With every step she hated that she had been so quick to believe him. Was every word from his mouth a lie? Had he really loved her? Or had he used her—
Worst of all were the words that repeated in her mind.
Mr. Darcy was right to warn me.
I should have listened to him.
OceanofPDF.com

13
Darcy
C
aroline’s smile was far too satisfied for Darcy’s liking, but he could not show it.
She leaned against the doorway, overdressed for the gray and dreary day.
The drawing room was warm enough to be comfortable, but not warm enough to be stuffy; Darcy writing a long overdue letter to his sister, and Charles pretending to read a newspaper that had arrived from London with a stack of other letters and correspondence.
Darcy had meant to speak to him about their visit to Longbourn—Charles had been somewhat silent on the subject of Miss Jane Bennet since their visit, but Darcy had been preoccupied with his own worries about Mr. Wickham and why the scoundrel had departed Hertfordshire with such speed and secrecy. It was most unlike him, and Darcy could not shake the sense of dread that accompanied the knowledge of his flight from the garrison.
“What do you want, Caroline?” Charles asked without looking up from his paper.
“I do not like your tone, brother,” Caroline sniffed. “Perhaps I shall not tell you.”
Charles sighed heavily and set aside his paper. “What is it, dear sister, I am at your command.”
He was mocking her, but Caroline did not care.
“That is more like it,” she said. “Louisa and I have been keeping this secret for days, but I told her that it was high time that we appraised you of it.”
“Of what?”
“A situation, of course,” Caroline said. Her eyes were wide and innocent, but Darcy did not like her tone.
“A situation.” Charles’ voice was measured as though he did not wish to encourage her to hysteria.
“Do not look so stern, Charles,” she laughed. “Louisa and I have received wonderful news, but I fear that it might all be ruined in an instant if I cannot have your agreement that—”
“What.”
“Well, it is only that Louisa and I have accepted an invitation from Lady Yorkton to attend a Christmas ball at Norton House, and you know how it would look if we were to disappoint her. We have been away from London for so long, and this would be a perfect opportunity to remind our friends that we are, indeed, still alive and worthy of their attention!”
Charles pressed his fingers to his temple. “Caroline—”
“You must not deny us this favor,” Caroline cried. “I am starved for society here! You might be happy enough, but Louisa and I are miserable. She will not speak to you of it because she knows how it upsets you to know that we do not love this hovel as much as you— But I am not afraid of hurting your feelings, Charles. You are keeping us prisoners here! Is it a punishment? What have we done to insult you, so?”
Darcy looked down at his letter to keep from snorting his derision at her ridiculous statements. Charles, himself, sat in a mortified silence as he stared at his sister.
“And Louisa feels the same?”
“She does,” Caroline answered immediately.
“And if we return to London for Christmas, would you be amenable to a return to Netherfield Park?”
“Perhaps in the spring,” Caroline sniffed, but Darcy knew that would be up for debate as well. A debate that Charles would lose.
“And what of Miss Jane Bennet?” Darcy asked.
Caroline turned on him immediately. “What of her? She has not been to Netherfield for tea in several days, and I begin to doubt her affection for my poor dear brother.”
“Do you?”
Charles’ eyes were wide. He was terrible at concealing his emotions, and Caroline leapt upon it like a tiger upon a wounded lamb.
“Oh, indeed, Charles. Each time Louisa or I would ask her about the depth of her affection, she found it difficult to put it into words. It was enough of a trial that both Louisa and I feel that she was more interested in your income than you. And their mother—”
“You have said quite enough,” Charles snapped.
“Charles, you know as well as I do that being aligned with such a family… It does not bear discussion.”
Charles looked down at the newspaper in his lap, but he did not argue and Darcy was frustrated by his silence. If it were his own love that had been called into question, he should not have sat silently…
“We should like to depart for London immediately,” Caroline said. “Louisa and I have much to prepare, and the house has been sitting empty for far too long. I have already written letters to Mr. Jacks to have servants hired on, and a new cook.”
“But the staff here—”
“They shall have to return to their homes,” Caroline said dismissively. “We cannot have a country cook in London. The gossip would be unbearable if we tried to serve stewed apples at a dinner party!”
“I happen to enjoy Mrs. Cooper’s stewed apples,” Charles muttered.
Caroline crossed her arms over her narrow chest. “Be that as it may, Lady Yorkton will
not
.”
“It seems as though I was not to have much choice in this matter,” Charles said through gritted teeth.
Caroline’s smile was bright. “No, indeed. Louisa and I did not think it would be wise to make this a choice… We are returning to London. With nothing to tie us to Hertfordshire, it is high time you abandoned this fantasy of being a country gentleman. Leave such things to Mr. Darcy. You belong in London. But more importantly,
we
belong in London. Not here. What would Mama say if she saw us in this house—you have entertained this foolish dream for long enough, Charles. It is time to wake up and return to your home.”
Without waiting for his reply, Caroline turned and disappeared from sight, the click of her shoes on the hardwood floor echoed strangely in the corridor and Darcy turned to his friend to gauge his reaction.
Charles’ mouth was set into a thin line and he glared down at the newspaper in his lap.
“You do not believe that Miss Bennet has no affection for you,” Darcy said. “Surely…”
“I do not know,” Charles said.
“But you— You were going to propose marriage, Charles!”
“I was. But it has taken me so long to work up the nerve that I fear I am rushing into something that I do not want.”
Darcy looked at him, incredulous that he could be hearing such things. “You cannot be serious.”
“Perhaps Caroline is right. I have neglected my business in London for far too long. If I pine for her, I shall return… I promise it.”
“You had best write to her and tell her that you are leaving,” Darcy said.
But Charles shook his head. “I do not think so… What would it help? I do not wish to upset the young lady.”
“You will upset her by making a departure in such secrecy…”
“What other choice do I have,” Charles snapped. “Caroline has made her position very clear. I have no other choice.”
“Then go to Longbourn right now and offer your proposal. Then you will know how best to proceed.”
Charles slapped his newspaper down upon the table beside him and stood up. “You do not understand,” he said vehemently. “I could not expect you to do so. You cannot even tell Elizabeth Bennet how you feel about her—”
“What—”
“Do not deny it,” Charles snarled. “You could have allowed Mr. Wickham to continue on his way, ruining lives or whatever else he had planned, but you could not. You were consumed with the thought of him speaking to Miss Bennet. But I know you well enough to know that you did not care about your reputation or what Wickham was saying—only that you were concerned that she would believe it, and that the fate you so narrowly rescued Georgiana from would become hers instead.”
Darcy stared at his friend, speechless in the face of his outrage.
“I—”
“There is nothing to say,” he snapped. “You cannot deny it, even though you would hide from such things.”
Darcy frowned at his letter, unable to articulate the thoughts that swirled through his mind. Was he correct? Was his preoccupation with George Wickham really due to his care for Elizabeth Bennet?
“I see we both have a great deal to consider,” Charles said stiffly. “We shall do it in London. You are welcome to stay with us.”
Charles gave him no opportunity to respond and strode from the room before Darcy could even gather his thoughts.
His friend’s accusations rang in his ears—but what was he to do with his emotions now? He had never considered Elizabeth Bennet to be anything more than another acquaintance who did not enjoy his company. As Charles had said on many occasions—he was not made for every palate.
He was usually content to allow others to view him as they saw fit. Their opinions did not trouble him. But Elizabeth Bennet’s opinion
did
trouble him.
Especially if she had listened to anything George Wickham might have had to say. It was safe to assume that the man would have nothing good to say about him. And it was entirely possible that he had crafted a very sympathetic story about the cruel hand he had been dealt.
All of it was a lie.
Every word that came out of that man’s mouth was a lie.
He had to speak to Elizabeth Bennet—he had to make her see the truth of it.
But if they departed Hertfordshire, what did it matter?
But it did matter.
More than he liked to admit.
D
arcy had not planned to stay long in London. Just as Caroline and Louisa had been adamant that there was nothing to hold them in Hertfordshire, there was nothing to hold him in London. It had been far too long since he had returned to Pemberley, but as the days dragged on and Christmas approached, he found that his desire to be alone in the vast estate held little appeal for him.
It would be difficult enough to draw Georgiana back to Pemberley for any length of time before she would beg to leave for Ramsgate once again.
Their departure from Netherfield Park had been swift, and Darcy had not been able to discern whether or not Charles had written to Jane Bennet to tell her of their plans.
Caroline, however, answered that question for him without prompting.
“You needn’t worry about Jane Bennet’s feelings, Mr. Darcy,” she said over tea on their second morning in London. “I have written to my dear friend to tell her that we have departed… and also that we mean not to return.”
“Why would you say such a thing?” Darcy asked, almost choking on his tea. “Charles has every intention of returning to Netherfield Park as soon as his duties here are closed. You know this very well.”
Louisa made a face as she stirred her tea. “We rather think that he will change his mind after Lady Yorkton’s ball. She has invited us very specifically, you see.”
“Indeed.”
“Just so,” Caroline said. “We have reason to believe that her Ladyship is finally ready to see her daughter married! What a lovely reason to stay in London, and perhaps acquire a summer retreat in Brighton!”
“Lovely,” Louisa said as she sipped her tea.
“Lovely,” Caroline repeated.
Darcy did not like her smile.
“And how did you express your regret at the departure?” he asked.
“Regret,” Caroline laughed. “I do not regret it at all. In fact, I have never felt lighter than I did the moment the carriage turned away from that horrid little town and onto the London road. Civilized roads… who would have thought that I could appreciate such a luxury.”
Louisa smiled appreciatively at her sister’s joke, but Darcy glared at her. Caroline, of course, did not register his disquiet and she continued to talk about her hopes for Lady Yorkton’s ball. Darcy, however, had stopped listening.
“Where is Charles,” he snapped.
Louisa looked up from her teacup. “He has gone to the solicitors,” she said.
A smile twisted across Darcy’s lips. Charles had been to see Mr. Mason yesterday. He would not need to visit the man again—he had gone to the club and lied to his sisters.
A bold move, but a smart one.
“I shall take my leave,” he said as set down his teacup and rose from his chair.
“But it is raining,” Caroline exclaimed. “Why would you—”
“I am in need of some fresh air,” he replied.
“We might open a window,” Caroline protested. But Darcy had already left the room and pulled the collar of his jacket up against the weather. He would find Charles easily enough. When he was looking to escape his sisters, he was always at Docks; sometimes at the billiard tables, but more often at cards.
He was a savvy gambler, so Darcy did not have to worry about him, but it was clear that Charles needed to talk about what was bothering him, and Darcy was tired of waiting for him to realize it for himself.
He opened the front door and stepped out into the rain. The walk to Docks was short, but he set off at a quick pace. He looked back at the house and almost smiled to see Caroline’s pale face in the window as she watched him leave.
Caroline knew very well that her behavior was infuriating, but she did not care. She would not learn any lessons from these interactions for there were too many people in her sphere who would support her actions and attitudes.
Miss Jane Bennet was precisely the balm that Charles Bingley needed in his life. If his sisters were permitted to negotiate a match for him that they approved of, he would be miserable until his dying day.
Darcy could not permit that to happen.
He stepped into the street to dodge a carriage, but as he did so, he caught sight of a young woman with dark hair and heard a laugh that was so familiar as to cause him to pause mid-step.
Elizabeth Bennet?
Could it be her?
She had passed by so quickly—but could it be? What was she doing in London?
Someone jodstoed against his shoulder, apologizing quickly before melting away into the crowd, but Darcy was preoccupied with trying to catch sight of Elizabeth once more. What if it was her? He had to find her again…
The sign for Docks was on his left, and he wiped the rain off his face and finally admitted defeat. He was soaked and would require a warm fire and a glass of whiskey to shake off the chill.
The doorman at Docks recognized him and opened the door to allow him to step into the familiarly dry warmth of the foyer.
“Mr. Darcy,” the concierge said. “You are soaked through— May we take your jacket?”
“No,” Darcy said, still somewhat stunned by his brush with Elizabeth—
had it truly been her?
“Is Mr. Bingley here?”
“He is,” the concierge replied. The man’s smile was quick, barely a flash of emotion, but it was enough. “You will find him at the billiard tables.”
Darcy thanked the man and walked quickly through the club, pausing long enough to pour himself a glass of whiskey before he continued on to the billiard rooms.
The club was crowded, but that was not a surprise.
Dock’s was always busy; filled with gentlemen looking to avoid their responsibilities and their families… Or just looking for a way to spend their inheritances. The card tables were not as predatory as some, but they were enough to keep any casual gambler’s interest.
Charles Bingley was frowning over the billiard tables. He leaned against the wood-paneled wall, arms crossed over his chest as he watched his opponent stalk the table.
Darcy entered the room and nodded to the other gentlemen before he stood beside Charles and leaned against the wall in a similar pose.
“Your sister is looking for you,” he said.
Charles snorted. “Were you sent to fetch me?”
“No, indeed. I came to escape. As you did.”
His friend nodded.
Charles’ opponent struck another ball and Charles winced.
“Have you been thinking about Netherfield Park?” Darcy asked.
“I have.”
“Will you return?”
Charles glanced at him and then looked back at the billiard table. His opponent lit a pipe and leaned over the table once more to take another shot.
“I mean to,” he replied. “As soon as Caroline is satisfied that I have done my duty, I shall be leaving for Hertfordshire. Perhaps even before Christmas.”
Darcy nodded. He wanted to push Charles out of the club and onto a horse so that they could leave at once.
“You will not mention it to Caroline?” Charles’ expression was apprehensive as though he could not trust Darcy’s response.
“Of course not,” Darcy said. “Caroline would wish for you to stay in London and release your lease on Netherfield Park. I believe you should follow your heart— And I believe I know where it lies.”
“It has not left Hertfordshire,” Charles muttered.
“Then you shall have to return to retrieve it,” Darcy said.
Charles nodded and took up his cue as his opponent missed his shot and let out a curse.
Darcy had not been certain of how difficult it would be to convince Charles to return to Hertfordshire, but he had not anticipated that his friend had already done the work for him. When they had departed Netherfield Park, Darcy had not been certain if they would ever return, but now he was certain that it would, indeed, happen as he had hoped.
Now the problem would be to keep Caroline’s plans at bay. Whatever she intended, he had to believe that Charles would stay true to his heart.
The only problem that remained was Elizabeth Bennet, and how Darcy was to manage his own convoluted feelings. Now that George Wickham’s influence had been removed, he could, perhaps, start over. Elizabeth Bennet did not have to love him, but he would feel better if she did not hate him—especially if that emotion were based upon the vicious lies that George Wickham carried with him wherever he went.
A chance to rectify her impression of him, that was all he required.
Perhaps then he could re-evaluate the puzzle of his emotions.
OceanofPDF.com

14
Elizabeth
S
eated in Mrs. Gardiner’s parlor, Elizabeth watched the rain track down the window instead of reading her book. Four days ago, her aunt had welcomed Elizabeth into the Gracechurch Street house with some measure of surprise—her arrival had, of course, not been expected, and Elizabeth had been soaked to the skin from her shameful walk from Barrow Street.
It had been a long walk.
In the rain.
But she had been forced into it by her lack of money, and the feeling that the walk was a sort of penance and punishment for her foolishness.
Mrs. Gardiner was an astute woman, but it would not have taken much to discern that her niece was in peril. She took Elizabeth’s unexpected arrival in stride and seemed content to lie to her husband and say that she had known of Elizabeth’s impending arrival for weeks—he had simply forgotten.
Mr. Gardiner was a jovial man, and was quite happy to agree with his beloved wife. He was often forgetful when it came to any matter that was not directly related to his business affairs, and Elizabeth was grateful beyond words to her aunt and uncle for accepting her presence at Gracechurch Street without question or complaint.
Mrs. Gardiner, however, made it clear that she did expect an explanation—but only when Elizabeth was ready to give it.
She had been in London for almost a week, but the sting of mr. Wickham’s betrayal had not yet lessened as she had hoped it would.
Elizabeth did not think herself foolish or stupid… and yet that was the only way she could believe that such a thing could have happened to her. To
her
. She would have expected that such a thing might happen to a silly young girl—
But it had happened to her.
She had been lied to, and she had believed every word that came out of that man’s mouth.
The tears that pricked against her lashes were tears of self-pity, frustration, and anger… She was angry at herself for believing his lies. Angry at him for using her in such a manner—
But it was done, and there was nothing she could do now to rectify what had happened. She had made a decision—one that she would not have made if she had known the truth.
“Scoundrel,” she muttered with all the venom she could muster.
But there was another matter that weighed upon her. She had been out walking in the streets of London the day before, on an errand for her aunt, when she had come upon an unfamiliar part of London that was populated with gentlemen and ladies of obvious wealth and position. The signs upon the shops and businesses were a good deal finer than the ones around the Gardiner’s house, and she had noticed one in particular emblazoned with a white dog with a collar of orange flowers.
But though she remembered the sign clearly, it was the fact that she had seen a familiar face within the crowd—one that she would recognize anywhere.
Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy.
As dour as ever. His collar turned up against the rainfall.
His eyes had widened as he had caught her stare, and he had almost fallen into the street.
It was him. There was no doubt of that in her mind.
But why was he in London? Could he have left Hertfordshire?
She had a faint thought that he had come to London to find her—but that was impossible. No one knew that she had gone, or the reason for her departure aside from visiting her aunt and uncle. That was all she had told her family, and she had confided in no one about her flight with Mr. Wickham.
Was he on George’s trail?
If he was—
“Lizzy? There you are,” Mrs. Gardiner said from the doorway. She sounded relieved, and Elizabeth shifted in her chair as her aunt rushed into the room, a letter held in her hand.
“Whatever is the matter?”
“A most disturbing letter,” Mrs. Gardiner said, choking back tears. She held it out to Elizabeth, who took the letter with some hesitation.
“Disturbing? What happened— Did something happen to Papa? Or—”
“No, no. Nothing like that,” Mrs. Gardiner said. “But you shall read. I do not know how I should reply…”
Elizabeth opened the letter and read it quickly.
“Dearest Aunt,
I know that Lizzy is on her way to see you, I can only hope that this letter will arrive in time to find you both well.
I wish that I were writing to tell you of wonderful news, but alas, I have none to spare. Kitty’s heart has been broken by our father who will not permit an officer to marry his daughter which has thrown the house into an uproar as Mama laments our future in the loudest of tones.
Elizabeth’s eyebrow rose and she looked at her aunt, but mrs. Gardiner motioned toward the letter once more.
“You shall know of the source of my dismay as soon as you read it,” she said.
“But it is my own shame that I have to share with you, dearest aunt… I have had a letter from Netherfield Park delivered almost immediately after Elizabeth departed for London. Caroline Bingley has written to say that she, Mrs. Hurst, Mr. Hurst, Mr. Darcy, and Mr. Bingley have all departed Hertfordshire for London—
But worst of all, her letter stated in most adamant terms that they did not foresee when they might return to Netherfield Park. Indeed, I take from her words that they mean never to come again.
I have been turning over, and over in my mind what I might have said or done to turn Mr. Bingley’s heart away, but I cannot find any reason.
“Oh, no,” Elizabeth whispered.
“You have come to it now,” Mrs. Gardiner said. “But, Lizzy, what is to be done?”
Elizabeth shook her head and read her sister’s words over again. Could it really be true?
Mama has begged our father to make haste and visit Netherfield Park to make certain of their absence, but Papa will not be moved. Thankfully, Sir William has answered that question for us all— Mama has heard from Lady Lucas than when Sir William visited the estate to pay his respects and enquire as to Mr. Bingley’s plans for Christmas, he found the house quite empty and the servants in the process of packing finery and paintings for storage.
“Is there nothing that might be done?” Mrs. Gardiner asked plaintively. “I do fear for poor Jane—and dear Kitty, how distraught she must be. She wrote to me not a fortnight ago about how happy she was to have Mr. Tanner visit Longbourn so often to speak with her.”
Elizabeth shook her head. “I do not know what to say—”
“Could Jane write to Miss Bingley?”
Elizabeth tried not to laugh. “I do not believe it would have any effect,” she said. “Caroline Bingley has, no doubt, been looking for any opportunity to depart Hertfordshire. I can only imagine that she has finally found a way to convince her brother to leave, and she will do everything in her power to keep him away from Jane.”
“But why would she not wish for her brother to be happy? I had nothing but hope for that union. From your mother’s letters I could not imagine a more perfect match.”
Mrs. Gardiner was clearly perplexed, and Elizabeth could not think of anything to say to comfort her.
“I believe that Miss Bingley will never be happy,” she said, “and if her brother were to be engaged to Jane I do believe she would have been even more horrible than she was already. Jane is too kind and lovely to see anything but good in people. But I do not believe that there is any good in Caroline Bingley. I am certain that she will not be satisfied until Mr. Bingley is married to someone with a similar disposition to herself… and if she is successful in her endeavor, I have nothing but pity for Mr. Bingley, for he certainly deserves better than the snakes he possesses for sisters.”
Elizabeth was aware of the venom in her tone, but she did not make any attempt to temper it. More than her anger at her own situation, she was furiously upset for Jane. Jane deserved every good thing… not this callous treatment.
Mr. Gardiner did not admonish her for her hard words, but Elizabeth would not have apologized even if she had.
“But what can be done?”
Elizabeth read Jane’s words once more and her heart ached for her gentle sister. Suddenly, a thought struck her.
“When I was walking yesterday, I saw a sign that I did not recognize—”
“Lizzy,” Mrs. Gardiner exclaimed, “this is hardly the time for sightseeing…”
“I saw Mr. Darcy in the street,” Elizabeth said. “I cannot imagine that he had walked far— Perhaps I might find where they are staying…”
Mrs. Gardiner sat up a little straighter. “You are a clever girl, Lizzy, but can you be certain?”
She nodded. “I am. He did not have a hat, and only his collar turned up to keep out the rain. He could not have come far in that weather.”
“What was the sign,” Mrs. Gardiner asked. “Perhaps I know it, or your uncle may be familiar with it.”
With firm determination, Elizabeth described the sign, and the street to her aunt. If she were fortunate, she would be able to discover Mr. Bingley’s whereabouts. But could she find the courage to confront him? Did she have a choice?
If she, herself, could not be saved, then perhaps she could safeguard Jane and help Mr. Bingley to understand the misery that had been left in the wake of his departure.
D
ock’s.
The white dog with a collar of marigolds had been immediately recognized by Mr. Gardiner as she described it to him. Now Elizabeth stood across the street from the club and waited for her uncle to emerge. He had insisted upon escorting her across town to be certain that he was correct.
Elizabeth could not enter the club, but Mr. Gardiner had offered to speak to the concierge and discover the address where Mr. Bingley could be found. However, when her uncle did emerge, his countenance was not one of a man who had attained victory over his task, and Elizabeth’s hope faded just a little.
“I am sorry, Lizzy,” he said. “The gentleman at the door was very kind, but unwilling to reveal that information…”
“I do not doubt it,” Elizabeth said. “But I am more than happy that you tried. Thank you.”
Mr. Gardiner nodded. “I do worry for my niece, as Mrs. Gardiner does. Perhaps you might leave a letter with the club—they would deliver it to him.”
Elizabeth shook her head. “No, I must speak to him face to face. A letter might be burnt or denied. But he cannot ignore me if I am upon his doorstep.”
Mr. Gardiner chuckled fondly at her determination. “I do pity anyone who crosses you, niece,” he said with a smile.
Elizabeth’s sternness broke for just a moment as she smiled. “I am not so terrifying as that,” she protested, but Mr. Gardiner only laughed.
“As you say.”
“I believe I should like to walk on a little farther,” she said. “Will you join me, uncle?”
Mr. Gardiner shook his head and laid a hand upon his belly. “No, indeed, my dear. I am needed at my warehouse, and it is long past time for my luncheon. Will you be able to find your way back to Gracechurch Street without trouble?”
“I shall be quite all right,” she said with a smile. “I shall not be late.”
“Wonderful, I shall send a note to your aunt to tell her so.”
Elizabeth kissed her uncle’s cheek and set out toward the end of the street where a flower seller held out bright bouquets of late autumn flowers for passers by. As she paused to purchase a bouquet,Elizabeth looked up at the row of houses that flanked the street. The buildings were tall and graceful, newly built and very obviously expensive and well made.
The doors were painted in eye-catching colors and each house featured a silver bell to ring to summon a servant to the door.
A different life, indeed.
At the door of one house, Elizabeth caught sight of a dark-haired woman in a bright green silk gown. It was a garish color, and easy to follow through the crowd. Only one person she knew would insist upon wearing such a shade of peridot.
She looked back over her shoulder toward the gentleman’s club. Could it be possible that Mr. Bingley’s house would be so close to such an establishment—conveniently close.
Elizabeth turned her face away as the woman came toward her. It was, indeed, Caroline Bingley, with Louisa Hurst following close behind. Elizabeth struggled to resist the urge to dash forward and snatch the ostrich feathers from Caroline’s elaborate hairstyle and stomp them into the puddles on the street.
It would solve nothing… but it
would
be satisfying.
As they passed, Elizabeth tightened her grip on the bouquet of flowers. She held them to her nose and inhaled deeply to bolster her courage.
On an impulse she could not fight, Elizabeth walked toward the house that Caroline and Louisa had just exited, and rang the silver bell.
She owed it to Jane to speak on her behalf. Jane would never ask for a reason… she would just accept that it had happened and blame herself for the rest of her life.
Needlessly torturing herself.
Elizabeth could not allow that to happen.
She rang the bell again and took a deep breath.
The door opened, and Elizabeth straightened her shoulders.
“Good day,” she said brightly. “Is Mr. Bingley at home?”
But instead of a butler or servant, Elizabeth stared into a familiar face.
Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy.
“Miss Bennet,” he choked out.
“Mr. Darcy!”
“What— What are you doing here?” he said. It was clear from his expression that he was shocked beyond all reason, and Elizabeth felt all of her boldness fading away in an instant.
“I— Why are you in London?”
“I am here with Mr. Bingley,” he answered.
The anger that had driven her to the dooray reared up. “And that is why
I
am here,” she snapped. “Why is he not at Netherfield Park?”
Suddenly it was as though Mr. Darcy realized that they were standing upon the stairs arguing loudly and that passers by were looking up at them, curious as to what was happening.
“Will you come inside?”
Elizabeth nodded shortly and pushed past him to enter the house. It was not much warmer in the foyer than it was upon the stairs, but Elizabeth was grateful to be indoors.
The gentleman gestured toward an open door and Elizabeth strode down the corridor and into the room he had indicated.
A small library with a fireplace and a pair of comfortable chairs set before it almost made her smile, but she was not here for a pleasant visit.
“Will you explain to me why Mr. Bingley decided to leave Hertfordshire?” she asked as the gentleman crossed the room and pulled a cord at the wall to summon a servant.
“I do not require tea,” she snapped.
“I do,” Mr. Darcy said.
“Oh…”
He seated himself in one of the chairs and gestured for her to do the same. Elizabeth was suddenly nervous at being alone with him, but the door was open, and a servant would be there soon enough… if she called out, someone could assist her.
“If I answer your questions, will you answer mine?” He regarded her somewhat warily, and Elizabeth pulled her shawl closer around her shoulders.
“If that is the price.”
“It is.”
“Fine.”
“Why did Mr. Bingley leave Netherfield Park?” she asked again.
“His sisters made a very convincing argument that they should return to London for Christmas,” he said simply.
Surprised, Elizabeth stared at him.
“That is all?”
He nodded. “As far as I understand it, Mr. Bingley intends to return to Hertfordshire with all haste.”
“But— Caroline wrote to my sister and told her that they would not return…”
Mr. Darcy shook his head. “Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst will not return, but Mr. Bingley will not be deterred.”
“But the servants have packed away all of the portraits and valuables for storage—” Elizabeth blurted out.
Mr Darcy’s eyebrow rose slightly. “Is that so?”
She nodded. “I have heard it from my sister—”
“A pity. I can only assume that Caroline had given the instruction without consulting her brother.”
“I would hear this from Mr. Bingley, himself,” Elizabeth said. The hope that flared in her chest was fleeting.
He could be lying.
He did not speak for Mr. Bingley. Perhaps he had other intentions and Mr. Darcy was only trying to dampen her anger and then turn her away filled with false hope for their return.
“Mr. Bingley is attending to some business that will make his return to Netherfield Park possible,” Mr. Darcy said smoothly.
A moment of silence passed, and Elizabeth almost accepted what had been said. Surely, Jane would be satisfied by this.
But what if it was not true—
“I shall wait for his return,” Elizabeth blurted out.
A maid appeared in the doorway and Mr. Darcy made his request for tea as Elizabeth took a seat across from him.
“Will you answer my questions now?” the gentleman asked.
Elizabeth nodded. “If I must.”
“Why are you here in London?”
Elizabeth blinked at him. “I am here to visit my aunt and uncle.”
“You were not at Longbourn when Mr. Bingley and I visited,” he said. “But no one could say why you were in Meryton—”
“I was on an errand for my father,” she said quickly, but the lie clicked against her teeth like the edge of a teacup.
The gentleman shifted in his seat and then stood, as though he did not know quite what to do with his long frame. He clasped his hands behind his back as he paced.
“Miss Bennet, I must tell you something— Something I have only told my closest friends.”
Elizabeth clutched at her shawl but said nothing as he walked to the window that looked out over the street.
“Mr. Wickham and I have known each other for many years,” he began.
“So he told me,” Elizabeth said bitterly. “And your treatment of him—”
“A lie,” Mr. Darcy interrupted her. “All of it.”
“And he was not the son of your father’s valet?” she challenged him.
The gentleman inclined his head. “That is true.”
“And you were raised as brothers,” she said.
“That is also true.”
“And will you also agree that when your father died, a man that he loved with all his heart, you broke every promise that was made? That you turned him away from your estate without a farthing to his name?”
“That is not true,” he choked out. “I swear it to you.”
Elizabeth felt cold all over. She did not know Mr. Darcy well, but she knew enough to trust that he would not lie about something like this—and his tone did not leave any room for argument.
“Mr. Wickham left Pemberley with full pockets and my father’s blessing. He had intended that George would take a position in Kympton, as a clergyman—”
Elizabeth’s mouth fell open.
“But he declined the position, saying that it was an insult…”
She did not know what to say.
“And to make matters worse, he attempted to persuade my sister that she should elope with him—”
Elizabeth pressed her fingertips to her lips to keep from gasping. The maid entered the room and made a fuss of setting down a tea tray and clattered about with cups and cream. Elizabeth was grateful for the distraction, but Mr. Darcy only seemed irritated by the disruption.
When the young woman had left, Mr. Darcy resumed his pacing and Elizabeth tried to focus on her tea instead of the turmoil of emotion that thundered in her chest in time with her heartbeat.
“They got as far as Brighton before I was able to interrupt George’s plans. He meant to marry her in secret and claim her dowry for himself…”
“It cannot be—”
“I was fortunate to have found them. If I had been but a day later, Georgiana could have been ruined, and I would have no choice but to sign her fortune over to him.”
“How horrible…”
“She was not yet sixteen,” Mr. Darcy said stiffly. “And I have not seen any sign of George Wickham since the day I sent him away. To discover him in Meryton—as a member of the militia no less—was a shock that I had not been prepared for.”
Elizabeth immediately felt ashamed for her anger toward Mr. Darcy. Anger that had been prompted by the knowledge that there was someone else in the world who found Mr. Darcy to be just as disagreeable as she.
“I— I cannot imagine.”
“And so, you must forgive me, but I went to the garrison to speak to Colonel Forster. He must know of the snake he had welcomed into his ranks. You can imagine my surprise to discover that the scoundrel had abandoned his post—”
Elizabeth’s fingers slipped on her cup and she almost dropped it into her lap. She caught herself just before the cup toppled over, but tea slopped upon the table and burned her hand, and she let out a gasp of pain as she reached for a napkin to blot away the liquid she had spilled.
He strode back to the chair he had vacated and leaned upon the back to look at her. “Did he lie to you, Elizabeth?”
The question was soft and Elizabeth bit her lip and tried to keep her eyes upon the mess she was cleaning up so he could not see how she struggled not to burst into tears.
“He did,” she managed.
“I hope you did not—”
“You were a day late,” she said without thinking and she cursed herself for speaking so candidly. She had just revealed her deepest shame. Her deepest secret. She was ruined. And now
he
knew it.
In an instant he was by her side, crouched beside the chair. He pulled the napkin from her fingers and set it aside.
“Can you forgive me for not revealing Mr. Wickham’s deceptions sooner?”
She looked into his dark eyes and forced herself to smile. “Of course,” she said. “But it is I who must beg forgiveness… I should not have believed his lies. I should not have been so foolish—”
“You were not a fool,” he said. “George Wickham is… an accomplished liar. Georgiana blamed herself, too. But it is not your fault. His lies are pretty, and he is a much more sympathetic figure than I.” His smile was brief as he met her gaze. “I can understand why you would have listened to him.”
“I should not have,” she whispered.
“It speaks well of your character, Elizabeth,” he said. “A kind heart in search of justice… Anyone would have done the same.”
She shook her head and brushed at her cheeks with her fingertips, hoping that a tear had not fallen. “A foolish heart, and nothing more.”
“You must not say such things.”
“But I
must
,” she said. “For it is the truth. If it were not for my belief in Mr. Wickham’s lies, I would be at Longbourn to comfort my sister and try to help her heal her broken heart… But instead, I am here in London, and by my own decision I have made myself a liability to my own family…”
The weight of it all fell upon her shoulders, and the tears rushed upon her before she could stop herself. Elizabeth wiped desperately at her face, hoping to stem the flow of tears, but it was a losing battle.
Suddenly, the gentleman pressed something into her hand. A handkerchief from his own pocket. A simple gesture, but one that made Elizabeth all the more upset.
“I shall make it right,” he promised. “For it is my fault that Mr. Wickham was permitted to move, unchecked, while I simply stood by. I shall not allow him to ruin any more lives for his own amusement.”
“But how—”
“You must trust me.”
Elizabeth nodded, but she did not know if she could do such a thing. The gentleman straightened and laid a gentle hand upon her shoulder and Elizabeth did not flinch away.
How could this possibly be made right?
How did one escape ruin?
OceanofPDF.com

15
Darcy
E
very other dilemma that had landed in Fitzwilliam Darcy’s lap had been easier to solve than this…
Georgiana had narrowly avoided Mr. Wickham’s scheme, but to know that he had done it again—it was a strange sensation, the feeling of betrayal all over again. Wickham had attempted to seduce his sister as an act of revenge, not because he cared for Georgiana. And to know that he had done it again set him on edge. Not the very least because he wondered if there was some way that the scoundrel could have known that he had an affection for Miss Elizabeth Bennet…
But that was not the heart of it.
Or was it?
Was that why he felt such an overwhelming sense of guilt? He had failed to warn her in time—or he had done it all wrong and still failed.
That was the root. Failure.
He had failed to protect Georgiana, and how he had failed to protect Elizabeth.
Could she ever forgive him? What could be done to set things right?
She was ruined… there was no escaping that fact.
If anyone were to discover the truth, it would mean the end of any proposal that Charles might have offered. If Caroline and Louisa heard of it, they would stand in his way with more conviction than they already did.
Caroline would take a particular delight in such gossip.
He had sent Elizabeth away with the promise that he would find an answer to her dilemma. And, most importantly, that he would keep her secret. She had agreed to stay with her aunt and uncle for a few more days, but she could not promise anything more. She would have to return to Hertfordshire and face the truth of her family’s ruin.
Wickham’s actions were inexcusable. He would have known of Elizabeth’s situation, and what her inheritance would be… Which meant that he had not done this for anything but sport. And because he
could
.
“Scoundrel,” Darcy muttered.
“You are talking to yourself more than usual this evening,” Charles observed. “What happened while I was out?”
Darcy glared into the fireplace and did not reply.
“Keep your secrets, then,” Charles sighed. “You must know that I have been thinking about what you said.”
Darcy glanced away from the fire for just a moment. Charles’ expression was pensive, but determined.
“Have you?”
“Indeed.”
“And what was your conclusion?”
“That I must return to Hertfordshire with all haste.”
Darcy sat up a little straighter. “And what is the reason for your sudden decision?”
Charles’ smile was more of a grimace. “My sister has spent the last two days speaking of nothing but Lady Yorkton’s daughter and all of her many accomplishments. I cannot bear another moment of it. Miss Emma Yorkton is everything that any gentleman might desire in a wife; her family is wealthy, and their estates put even Pemberley to shame…”
“But?”
“But she is not Jane Bennet,” he replied with a shake of his head.
“I see.”
“You see,” Charles exclaimed in exasperation. “I have just confessed to you that I am in love with Jane Bennet, and yet all you can say is ‘I see’?”
“When will you return to Hertfordshire?”
“At once,” Charles fumed. “I shall write to my solicitor today to advise him of that fact. Will you come with me? I feel that I need some… support. Caroline and Louisa will be furious.”
Darcy chuckled. “They will, indeed. But if you allow them to choose your path for you, I fear that you shall never know happiness again as long as you live.”
“That is my fear also,” Charles said with some chagrin. “I do love my sisters, but they are far too…”
“Involved?”
“Yes. Precisely.”
Darcy pressed his fingers against his jaw and looked into the fire once more.
“What is it?” Charles asked.
“I have a confession of my own,” Darcy said abruptly.
“Indeed?”
Darcy weighed his next words carefully, but then threw all caution to the wind. He did know of how he might rectify Elizabeth Bennet’s dilemma, it was the only way to make things right, and atone for his mistake in keeping Wickham’s true nature hidden.
“I have a proposal of my own to make,” he said.
“To whom?” Charles was incredulous, and his voice betrayed his shock and surprise. “You have not paid any attention to anyone since… I cannot recall when. Who is the fortunate young lady?”
“Miss Elizabeth Bennet,” he said shortly.
“What?” Charles spluttered.
“In vain I have struggled, but it will not do,” Darcy said. “I must admit to myself, and to her…”
“I have never had such a shock in all my life,” Charles exclaimed then he laughed. “To think I labored under the delusion that she disliked you utterly.”
“Oh, I do believe that she does,” Darcy said. “But I must make my thoughts and wishes known… else I may go mad with it. She may reject me, but I must take that chance.”
“I would never have expected it of you. Fitzwilliam Darcy, my oldest and dearest friend, consumed by love. Driven mad by it!”
Darcy shook his head and chuckled at Charles’ dramatics. “You are mocking me now,” he said.
“Perhaps a very little,” Charles admitted. “Come, we must prepare to depart London.”
Darcy nodded and rose from his chair. The decision had been made so suddenly, but he knew, in his heart, that it was the correct one. Elizabeth could not reject his offer. To do so would be to sacrifice not only herself, but her whole family to ruin. He was her only hope, and he had no intention of failing her again.
OceanofPDF.com

16
Elizabeth
S
leep was something that seemed like only a memory. Elizabeth had spent nine sleepless nights in London, gnawed by guilt and despair over what she had done… over what she had allowed to happen. How had she believed his lies? How?
It did not help matters that what Mr. Darcy had said repeated in her mind.
She was not the first of George Wickham’s victims… and she would not be the last.
If she had been the only one, or the first, then perhaps it might not have hurt so terribly, but to know that he had not cared for her at all—that knife twisted deepest.
She had not mattered to him. She was merely a distraction…
A stepping stone.
Elizabeth was pacing the parlor as the gray dawn light filtered through the sheer curtains when Mr. Darcy’s note arrived.
The message was short and simple.
I promised that I would make this right, and I shall. Return to Hertfordshire, and do not trouble yourself with worry. All will be well.
She frowned at the note as she read it again. “All will be well,” she muttered. But how could he be so certain?
What could possibly happen that would make such a stain disappear?
Mrs. Gardiner was the only other person who knew her secret—she had labored over whether or not to tell her aunt what had happened, but when she had come upon Elizabeth crying in the drawing room where she thought that no one could hear her, she had to reveal the truth.
Despite the shock of the scandal brewing beneath her own roof, Mrs. Gardiner had been kind and understanding, and Elizabeth was grateful to have been able to unburden herself.
Her aunt had even offered to come to Hertfordshire with her to help soften the blow—but nothing could be said or done that would prevent the storm that would come when all was revealed. Elizabeth had hoped that she might pretend that nothing was amiss, and that her visit to London was precisely that, just a visit to her beloved aunt and uncle.
But pretending that she had not been ruined would be just as difficult to bear as the ruin itself. She could pretend all she liked, but she could not marry—the discovery of her misstep would be disastrous. And the knowledge that she would have to deflect all of her mother’s attempts at matchmaking for the next several years was entirely unappealing. And even if she did manage to escape the discovery of her secret, what if Mr. Wickham returned to Hertfordshire and revealed it to anyone who might listen?
What then? She could not escape the truth. No matter how she might try.
Why would Mr. Darcy wish for her to return to Hertfordshire? Was the very sight of her too much to bear? Had he spoken to Mr. Bingley?
All will be well.
She could scarcely believe such a thing. But she did not have a choice. In any case, she knew that she had to return to Longbourn to comfort Jane and support her—if Mr. Bingley did return, she would need her sister. And if he did not… Well, that would be an entirely different problem that they would have to navigate. But in any case, home was where she should be. The longer she stayed in London, the worse she felt, and she could not bear it for much longer.
She must prepare herself for what lay ahead. Whatever it might be. If she was not strong enough, she would have to be stronger.
OceanofPDF.com

17
Darcy
C
harles’ eagerness to depart London took Darcy by surprise, but he supposed that it should not have. Caroline’s determination to see her brother married to an ‘appropriate’ young lady had set a fire in Charles' belly that would not be easily quenched.
If this was how he wished to exert his will, then Darcy was happy to support it.
Charles had not made an announcement about their intended departure over supper as Darcy had expected, and he reveled in the facade that his friend adopted while his sisters talked endlessly of Miss Yorkton’s many accomplishments as well as her desire for a house filled with children. No doubt Charles had determined that there would be too much opposition to their intended journey. It would be easier to beg forgiveness than ask permission—not that Charles needed such a thing.
However much he bowed to his sisters’ advice and admonitions in their everyday life, Darcy was pleased to see his friend take control of his future in such a way.
In the early hours of the following morning, as they waited for their horses to be brought out, Charles finally broke his silence.
“I do believe that I shall appreciate the quiet of Hertfordshire even more without the company of my sisters,” he said.
Darcy agreed, of course, but he did not need to say it. Charles knew that he merely tolerated Caroline’s presence. Louisa was tolerable, but only if her husband was nowhere to be found. Caroline had haunted Darcy’s steps for years, hoping for the day that he would forget all reason and agree to make her the Mistress of Pemberley.
Darcy bit back a smile at the thought of how Caroline would react when his plans were revealed.
“We will go directly to Longbourn,” Charles said as the horses were brought around. A carriage laden with their trunks was ready to depart and Darcy shook his head in mock frustration.
“Must you always be in such a hurry to ruin your life?” Darcy chuckled.
“Ruin? But you have encouraged me—”
Darcy laid a hand on his friend’s shoulder. “And I encourage you still,” he said. “Let us approach this carefully. Do you wish for Jane Bennet to see you arrive, hot and sweaty from the road and a hard ride? Or composed and gentlemanly?”
Charles’ smile was a little wild as he swung up into the saddle. “I would have her see how eager I was to return to her side,” he exclaimed. “We have a short ride ahead of us, let us not delay!”
Charles knew very well that it was not a short ride, but Darcy supposed that it would not have seemed long at all. He was, after all, returning to the doorstep of a young woman that he never should have left waiting for a proposal… It would be a wonder if she even accepted his visit.
But if her affection for Charles was anything close to that which he held for her, there would not even be a question of what had kept him away…
Elizabeth would be more difficult to manage. She already disliked him, and he did not expect that her feelings would have softened at all since their reunion.
Darcy mounted his horse and steadied himself in the saddle as Charles took up the reins.
“Are you prepared to speak to Mr. Bennet?” Darcy asked.
“No,” Charles admitted with some chagrin. “But I have a rapport with the gentleman already, and I do not expect that he could have changed his opinion of me just yet…”
“You did break his eldest daughter’s heart by departing Netherfield Park without a word of warning.”
Charles grimaced. “You did not need to remind me.”
Darcy laughed and set his heels against the stirrups. “I have no doubt that Mr. Bennet will remind you immediately.”
Charles shook his head and urged his gelding forward. “Stop talking and ride,” he muttered.
The horses’ hooves clattered over the cobblestones and Darcy did not look back at the house to see if Caroline was watching their departure.
There was nothing she could do now.
“M
r. Bingley, I am surprised to see your face here.”
Mr. Bennet was as stern and expressionless as Darcy had expected, and Charles was sweating. They stood in the gentleman’s study, and it was far too warm.
Darcy shifted uncomfortably, hat in his hands.
If only Charles had agreed to return to Netherfield Park to change clothes and gather his wits, they might not be in such a state, but his friend had insisted…
“I have been gone too long,” Charles blurted out. “As soon as we turned down the road that led into Meryton I said to Mr. Darcy that it felt like home, did I not?”
Charles looked at him, desperately, and Darcy nodded. “Indeed, he did.”
“You must understand, sir, as a gentleman with daughters—I could not ignore my sister’s request to return to London for Christmas. London is where we have celebrated the holidays since we were children, and I cannot put aside traditions.”
“I understand very well,” Mr. Bennet said. “But did you not think that some kind of sign or indication of your intention to return to Hertfordshire might have been necessary? I have it on very good authority that the servants were seen packing the artwork and finery away for storage—as though you meant not to return at all.”
“Untrue,” Charles said vehemently. “My sister, I will admit, was somewhat… in earnest and did not consult me when it came to packing. I have decided that Netherfield Park is overdue for redecoration, so it will not be a hardship.”
“Indeed,” Mr. Bennet said.
It was impossible to discern what the older man was thinking, and Darcy could see that Charles was at a loss.
“But Mr. Bingley has returned now,” Darcy said suddenly. “But he will depart Hertfordshire without argument if he is not able to win back your favor.”
Mr. Bennet’s eyebrows rose slightly. “Is that so?”
“It is,” Charles said gratefully. “I have come to apologize to you, sir, for my hesitation. I should have come to you sooner and asked for your permission to court your eldest daughter, Jane.”
Mr. Bennet folded his hands upon his desk and regarded the gentleman in front of him carefully.
“And what was it that prevented you from doing so before?”
“I—” Charles paused and then lifted his chin. “I was a fool, Mr. Bennet. I have seen the error of my ways and have come to make amends. I do believe that I shall not be happy unless your daughter accepts my proposal of marriage.”
After what seemed like a lifetime of waiting, Mr. Bennet unfolded his hands and pushed back his chair. He was not a tall man, but he had a commanding presence regardless of his stature. He extended a hand to Charles, who took it with a look of genuine confusion upon his face.
“I—”
“You have my permission to court my Jane,” he said. “But you must promise that you will not break her heart, Mr. Bingley. You have come very close to doing so, and I will not stand idly by to watch my child suffer for the likes of you.”
He said those words with a smile upon his face, but there was a hint of seriousness in them that Darcy could not mistake, and Charles had certainly taken the man’s meaning as well.
“She is waiting for you in the parlor,” Mr. Bennet said. “Do go and join her.”
“Thank you, sir,” Charles said excitedly. He rushed from the study and barely stopped to look back at Darcy, who had not moved from his position by the window.
“And what might I do for you, Mr. Darcy?” Mr. Bennet asked. “Are you here to petition for one of my daughters as well? I confess that Jane is the most sensible of them, and she is just now spoken for…”
“I am, indeed, here to speak to you about one of your daughters,” Darcy said. “But first, I must ask you, sir, what your opinion was of Mr. George Wickham. I have heard that he came here to speak to you—”
“He did, indeed,” Mr. Bennet said stiffly. “And he was rebuffed quite soundly, I might add. If you are here to beg for a reprieve on his behalf, you shall be turned away just as firmly.”
Darcy held up a hand. “I am no friend to George Wickham,” he said.
“Good,” Mr. Bennet snapped. “Then you have that in your favor. “I did not trust the man.”
“Nor should you have,” Darcy said. “I applaud your instincts, sir.”
“But you did not come here to congratulate me on my keen judgment of character,” Mr. Bennet said shortly. “Do not waste my time, Mr. Darcy. I am not a lover of flattery.”
“Of course,” Darcy said. “I have come here, Mr. Bennet, with a similar goal to that of my friend. But I would offer my suit for Elizabeth…”
“Lizzy,” Mr. Bennet said and Darcy groaned inwardly. Of course she was his favorite. In addition to the ruin it carried, the truth would destroy the gentleman who stood in front of him.
“Yes,” Darcy said.
It was far too late to change his mind now. The only way he could think of to rectify this situation was to take the burden of the ruin upon himself. He was wealthy enough that he could do as he liked. And he was secure enough that if Mr. Wickham did rear his head once more, he could be dealt with in a precise and swift fashion. No one need know what had really happened, and Elizabeth’s secret would be safe. To the benefit of all.
“I must tell you how much I ardently love and admire your daughter—” Darcy began. “She has… challenged me in ways I did not know possible.”
“Infuriating, is she not?” the gentleman chuckled.
Darcy felt as though he could dare a smile. “Indeed.”
“An opinion on every topic, and some you would not expect,” Mr. Bennet continued. “But there is a problem, Mr. Darcy.”
That had been expected. “Yes?”
“I will not give my permission if Lizzy does not agree,” he said with a shrug. “I should never be forgiven if I were to dictate the direction of my daughter's future.”
“But you denied Mr. Wickham’s suit?”
“I did,” he said firmly.
“Might I ask why?”
“I did not like the man,” Mr. Bennet said. “And I do not trust officers.”
Darcy tried not to laugh. “And why might that be?”
“It was some years ago,” Mr. Bennet said gruffly, but a rogue in a red coat very nearly took my own love away for himself.” He shook his head and returned to his chair. “I cannot abide them now. Kitty may never forgive me for my prejudice, but I could not have a military man for a son.”
Darcy could not fault Mr. Bennet’s logic, but it was amusing to see such vehemence from a gentleman of his age. Especially over a slight from so many years ago.
The door to the study opened suddenly and Elizabeth rushed into the room. Her cheeks were pink, and her mouth dropped open to see Darcy standing in the study.
“What is it, dearest?” Mr. Bennet asked.
“Papa— Mr. Bingley has made his proposal!”
Charles had wasted no time, and Darcy was impressed by his friend’s eagerness to rectify his mistake. Now it was his turn.
“Wonderful news,” Mr. Bennet said with a smile. “Lizzy, will you come in?”
Elizabeth hesitated for only a moment before she stepped into the room and closed the door behind her. She regarded Darcy with a wary eye and then smiled at her father.
“It is wonderful news,” she said. “I had hoped that he would return to Hertfordshire before Christmas.”
“Lizzy,” her father said. “You are acquainted with this gentleman, are you not?”
She glanced at him and her spine straightened. “I am,” she replied. “Good day, Mr. Darcy.”
Darcy bowed and waited for his host.
Mr. Bennet seemed amused by their interaction, and he laced his fingers together as he met his daughter’s determined gaze.
“Mr. Darcy has come here with a question,” he said. “And I have told him that I would not consider anything until you have agreed.”
“A question—” Elizabeth’s eyes narrowed. “What question?”
“Mr. Darcy has offered his suit,” Mr. Bennet said. A smile tugged at the corner of the old man’s mouth and Darcy knew immediately that Elizabeth’s father was, indeed, amused by the tension between the pair who stood before him.
“His— I am sorry… I must be mistaken in…”
“Miss Bennet, I will not be deterred,” Darcy blurted out. “I have made an offer for your hand. But your father has, very wisely, determined that I shall not have his permission to ask the question that has been burning in my mind for… far too long. Not unless you agree to listen to what I have to say.”
Elizabeth’s mouth opened and closed soundlessly.
“Come now, Lizzy, this is not the time to have lost your senses,” Mr. Bennet cajoled her. “A simple answer. If you say yes, then Mr. Darcy will be welcome in this house. If you say no, we shall escort him to the door.”
“I—”
Darcy stepped forward and extended his hand toward her. Elizabeth flinched away as though he had just offered her a garden snake and he wondered what thoughts were flooding through her mind at that moment.
“I— I have only just returned from London,” Elizabeth said. “Just this morning. I am exhausted from my journey and should like to think about your offer. Will you permit me some time to consider it?”
“Of course,” Darcy said.
“But do not take too long,” Mr. Bennet admonished playfully as he opened his ledger and took up his quill. “If the other young ladies of Hertfordshire were to hear that Mr. Darcy is, indeed, looking for a bride; it will not be long before you have competition for the gentleman’s attentions.”
He did not look up from his book, but waved them away with his quill. A clear dismissal. Elizabeth bit her lip and Darcy wondered if she would argue with her father, but instead she nodded and walked quickly to the door and pulled it open.
She did not wait for him, or look back at him as she stepped into the corridor, but Darcy paused long enough to thank his host for his time.
“Be careful, Mr. Darcy,” he said as he glanced up. “You may regret this decision.”
“I do not think so,” Darcy said with a brief smile.
“We shall see…”
Indeed
, Darcy thought.
He regretted not speaking to her about his plan, but he could not deny the thrill of it. He had never intended to marry, content to leave the pressures of marriage and family to Georgiana, who he expected would enjoy such things far more than he.
But perhaps he had only felt such a disinterest because he had not met anyone suitable to his tastes and personality. Because he had not yet met her…
OceanofPDF.com

18
Elizabeth
T
here was fire under Elizabeth’s heels as she ran up the stairs and away from the gentleman in her father’s study, and the noise of the parlor as Mrs. Bennet exclaimed over Jane's sudden engagement.
Overwhelmed by Mr. Bingley’s surprise appearance at their door, and Mr. Darcy’s presence at his side—and then to see him in her father’s study. And the proposal—
She cursed under her breath and her cheeks felt hot as she rushed into the room she shared with Jane.
What had happened? What had he decided? Was this his plan? To pretend that nothing was amiss and offer a proposal to cover up her indiscretion? Was this her true punishment? To be tied to a gentleman who did not love her for the rest of her days as penance?
What was there to consider? The illusion of choice was the most insulting part of his offer. If she said no she would be left upon the knife edge of scandal and ruin. If Mr. Wickham returned and spoke of their tryst… it would be the end of any happiness she might have found. The end of Jane’s happiness.
And Jane was so happy. It broke her heart with joy to see her sister so radiant after such depths of despair…
“Lizzy— What happened?”
Jane entered the room, her cheeks still pink and her eyes still wet with happy tears, and Elizabeth felt her chest tightening with the impossibility of her situation.
The inevitability.
“You are engaged now,” Elizabeth said. “I am so happy for you.”
Jane crossed her arms over her chest. “That is why you are sitting up here… alone… crying.” She let out a heavy sigh. “Did Mr. Darcy come here just to say something cruel to you? I shall speak to Mr. Bingley about him—”
“No, no,” Elizabeth said quickly. “Nothing of the sort…”
“But I saw him come out of Papa’s study,” Jane said with some suspicion in her voice. She sat on the bed beside Elizabeth and took her hand. “You can tell me. I cannot have you feeling sad or alone on the happiest day of my life.”
“Your wedding day will be the happiest day,” Elizabeth said. “And then you will have another happiest day when your first child is born…”
“You are being silly now,” Jane admonished her. “And you are trying to distract me from your melancholy. Why won't you not tell me what is the matter?”
Elizabeth squeezed her sister’s fingers and smiled, though she knew that it was not as reassuring a gesture as she had meant it. “It is nothing,” she said. “I have simply received some strange news…”
“Lizzy, I cannot bear this secrecy.” Jane grabbed hold of Elizabeth’s hand again and held it tightly even when Elizabeth tried to pull away. “You have not been yourself for weeks. Ever since Mr. Wickham came to see Papa— You cannot be so affected by Papa’s refusal?”
“Oh, Jane…” Suddenly, all of Elizabeth’s defenses broke away and the tears she had been trying valiantly, or foolishly, to hold back spilled down her cheeks. She flung herself into Jane’s arms and her surprised sister held her gently while she cried.
“Lizzy… You
must
tell me what happened. I shall see it made right.”
Elizabeth pulled away and used the edge of her dress to wipe her cheeks and dry her eyes. “It has everything to do with that,” she choked out. “Mr. Wickham… He asked me to come away with him. To come to London. He promised to make me his wife—that he would be waiting for me.”
“Oh, Lizzy,” Jane whispered. “I had wondered why your visit to our aunt and uncle was so sudden and that you had not mentioned it before… I was so caught up in Mr. Bingley’s departure from Netherfield Park that I did not think—”
“He promised me so many things, Jane,” Elizabeth said softly. “And I believed them all.”
Jane was distraught and Elizabeth felt the wound of her guilt refreshed once more.
“Can you forgive me? I would not have allowed such a thing to happen… That scoundrel!”
“There is nothing to forgive,” Elizabeth said. “Despite Papa’s judgment, I still followed my foolish heart. I would expect such behavior from Lydia, but never from myself— I am so ashamed and I have brought ruin to our doorstep.”
“There must be something that could be done,” Jane said desperately.
“There is,” Elizabeth said. “I have received an offer of marriage from someone whom Papa has approved of.”
Jane’s eyes widened. “Oh, but Lizzy, that is wonderful news! Who is the gentleman? Do I know him?”
“You know him well enough,” Elizabeth said bitterly.
“You must not keep me in suspense,” Jane said. “There have been too many secrets in this house and I will not play these games any longer.”
Elizabeth swallowed the lump in her throat and rose from her seat on the bed to look out the window. In the courtyard below, Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy stood with Mr. Bennet. Mr. Bingley’s smile was broad as he gestured animatedly, and even Mr. Darcy seemed to be enjoying the conversation. A shock, to be sure.
“It is Mr. Darcy who has offered to rescue me from ruin,” she said. “All of us.”
Jane was silent for a moment.
“You cannot be serious.”
“I am,” Elizabeth replied, her gaze still focused on the knot of gentlemen in the courtyard below. “He has offered to make me Mistress of Pemberley. The answer to all of our woes… You shall have the man you love by your side, and our sisters will not have to navigate society stained by my mistakes…”
“Lizzy— No one need ever know—”
“You are quite correct,” Elizabeth said and forced a smile onto her face. “No one will know. Mr. Darcy has seen to that. He could have come here and told Papa the truth about my indiscretion. But he has not. I suppose I should be grateful that he feels a sense of guilt that he did not do more to keep Mr. Wickham from our doorstep—a wolf in sheep’s clothing.”
“It is not your fault,” Jane protested.
“But it is,” Elizabeth said firmly. “I made the decision to go to him… I made the decision, Jane. And now I must face the consequence of it. I would not put Kitty or Lydia in such a position. Marriage is the only way to avoid embarrassment. If Mr. Darcy is willing to take that upon himself, then I cannot very well say no…”
“You have a choice,” Jane said. “Mr. Bingley has made his offer of marriage, and I have accepted. He cannot take it back—”
“If our family were to be tarnished with ruin, do you not think that Papa would release him from his promise? If an alignment with our family were to prove an embarrassment— No, I would not put you in harm’s way. My foolish decision should affect no one but myself.”
“But Mr. Darcy— You would put aside your dislike of him?”
“I have no choice,” Elizabeth said with a shrug. “It would be a marriage in name only.”
“Is that what he has offered?” Jane asked incredulously. “I cannot imagine such a thing…”
“He has not,” Elizabeth admitted. “But it is what I shall demand. I do not love him, and he knows it well. Perhaps he will ask very little of me and I shall be able to pour my energies into the management of a great estate. I am certain that he will permit me to visit you often and will not mind if I am away more than I am in Derbyshire.”
Jane pressed the back of her hand against her cheek and took a shaking breath. “Lizzy— I do not know what to say.”
Elizabeth shook her head. “There is nothing to say. This union will protect both of us— All of us. If Mr. Wickham returns to make trouble for our family, Mr. Darcy will be the affronted party, and I do not believe that Mr. Wickham would dare to stand against him…”
Elizabeth walked back to the bed and sat down beside her sister once more. “I am sorry, Jane. I hope you will be able to forgive me for my foolishness. I did not think—”
Jane draped her arm over Elizabeth’s shoulders and pulled her against her side. “You do not need to apologize to me,” she said. “You believed him… and I do not blame you.”
The crackle of the fire was the only sound in the room as Elizabeth closed her eyes and tried to think of anything but what she must do.
“What answer did you give Mr. Darcy?” Jane’s question was gentle.
“I did not,” Elizabeth replied. “I told him that I would consider it. I need time to think about what I want.”
“It sounded to me as though you had already made your decision,” Jane observed.
“Perhaps.”
She
had
made a decision, but it still felt as though she did not really have a choice.
Mr. Darcy had seen to that when he made his proposal in front of her father.
The proposal was the problem—Anyone who knew her would know that she disliked the gentleman. To agree would be strange and would invite questions as to her sudden change of heart. The longer their engagement dragged out, the more time there would be for someone to discover the truth—and she could bear no more truth.
She had said so often that she would never be persuaded to marry until she found the very deepest love—until she was swept away by it. By passion, by intrigue, by everything she had never known she was missing in her life.
George Wickham had pretended to possess all of those qualities… and Elizabeth had been more than willing to ignore every hint that he might not have been what he seemed.
It had seemed so perfectly impossible that anyone would appear that would fall into the perfect shape that Elizabeth had constructed in her mind… But he had, and she had been swept away.
Foolish heart.
Elizabeth blinked back a fresh bout of tears. She knew what must be done.
She did not love him, but perhaps they might find some common ground that would give them some semblance of mutual comfort. He needed someone to help him manage his estate, and she? Elizabeth had not yet determined what she needed beyond the fact that he had offered an escape from her mistakes. There had to be more…
Perhaps she would have to be content to have nothing more. That was her punishment. Her penance.
Perhaps that would have to be enough. To know that she had made a decision that would save her sisters from the stain of ruin.
Jane released her hold on Elizabeth’s shoulders and tried to coax her into coming back down to the parlor. Their mother would want to hear about Mr. Darcy’s proposal—but Elizabeth could not bring herself to face such scrutiny.
“I shall not take away from your happiest moment,” Elizabeth said. “You may begin to plan your nuptials with Mama’s assistance, and I shall wait for a moment that does not take away from yours… You have waited long enough for such happiness.”
“But what shall I tell Mama? They will be wondering where you are! You have only just arrived home, and Mama will want all the news from London.”
“Tell Mama that my head aches,” Elizabeth said with a weak smile. “It is not far from the truth. I promise that I shall tell her all the news over breakfast, and then you may tell me all of your plans for your wedding.”
Jane kissed her sister’s cheek. “Do not spend too much time on regret,” she said. “You have much to look forward to, there is no use in looking back.”
Elizabeth nodded.
Jane was right, of course, but Elizabeth was not quite ready to let go of her guilt.
Perhaps in the morning she would reconsider her position.
Perhaps.
OceanofPDF.com

19
Darcy
“H
as she given you an answer yet?”
Charles had asked him the same question every day since their return to Netherfield Park.
“No,” Darcy replied.
“What do you plan to do?” he pressed. “What if she refuses your proposal? What will happen then?”
Darcy gritted his teeth. “If she refuses, then— Then I shall have to ask again.”
Charles crossed his arms over his chest. “That sounds futile. But I have been saying the same thing for several days now.”
“It is repetitive,” Darcy said dryly.
“But the young lady still has a great deal of animosity toward you,” he observed. “What do you gain from this marriage?”
“We have been over this already,” Darcy said. His head was beginning to ache. He was fully prepared for Elizabeth to offer terms to their arrangement. He was prepared to agree to almost anything.
“Will it be a marriage in name only?” Charles asked suddenly.
“I had not considered it,” Darcy said stiffly.
“It will be easier to manage, certainly. You have said that you were in need of someone who would be able to handle the management of the estate. A ‘useful sort of person,’ is that not what your aunt demanded?”
“It is.”
The memory of his aunt’s demands were bitter. He did not like to give Lady Catherine de Bourgh any cause to pay attention to anything he did. A marriage to any young lady that she had not chosen herself, or at least subjected to an interrogation disguised as an invitation to tea at Rosings Park… How would Elizabeth fare against such a foe? He was almost amused by the possibility of watching her face off against Lady Catherine.
A battle for the ages.
“You are taking a great risk,” Charles said.
Darcy did not regret the fact that he had revealed his plan to his friend. Charles was well and truly in love with Jane Bennet and he would not go back on the promise of marriage that he had made. But if Elizabeth were to reject him, it may prove difficult for Charles to justify his union.
Darcy also did not doubt that if Caroline and Louisa discovered the truth they would do their utmost to break the marriage apart without any thought to their brother’s wishes.
It would be a disaster.
He could only hope that Elizabeth Bennet’s sense of duty to her family would outweigh her pride…
“What is to be done with George Wickham?”
The bitterness in Charles’ voice was thickened by the whiskey he had drunk and Darcy regarded him carefully.
“What do you mean?”
“What is to be done with him?” Charles repeated. “I cannot say it any plainer.”
“He must be found, and he must be punished,” Darcy replied. “Colonel Forster will have men looking for him. He abandoned his post and his commission. At the very least he will be punished for his desertion.”
“It is not enough,” Charles grumbled.
Darcy agreed, but he did not say it. Charles did not need his permission to be angry.
He was a good friend, and Darcy appreciated his support as well as his outrage.
“I do not want to speak about George Wickham any longer,” Darcy said. “Tell me what you plan for your wedding. How long will you wait to stand in front of the parson?”
Charles shook his head. “I have already waited too long,” he said with a genuinely happy grin. “I would be happy to speak my vows tomorrow if it came to it, but I know that I must wait a little while longer.”
“Will you tell your sisters?”
Charles laughed and shook his head. “You know that I must tell them. But I do not need their permission or their blessing. I know that my father would be proud of my choice, and that is all the approval I need. They will not come to Hertfordshire, I know that much. And when Caroline discovers that you have made an offer of marriage— She will be furious.”
“I have no doubt of that,” Darcy said with a smile.
“Perhaps Jane will agree to a shorter engagement,” Charles said suddenly. “I cannot bear the thought of not having her as my wife— Do you think she might agree to such an offer?”
Darcy was taken aback by his friend’s eagerness. “I do not see why she might refuse,” he said. “Your engagement was delayed by far too many factors, I cannot imagine she would argue.”
Charles nodded. “Good. Perhaps her sister will have made her own decision by then. A double wedding— We would host the wedding breakfast here, of course.”
“Of course,” Darcy murmured. He had not thought of any of these details and it was surprising enough to him that Charles had taken such an interest in such things. Most gentlemen he knew wished to keep themselves as far away from discussions even remotely connected to marriage. Charles, however, seemed very invested in the details of his impending nuptials.
If Charles were so determined, perhaps he should allow the man to direct the path. Jane Bennet would not disagree with his choice to have a shorter engagement, he knew that with certainty. Elizabeth, however, would be more difficult to manage.
She had not yet agreed to his proposal…
“I have not yet secured my own bride,” Darcy chuckled. “Give me some time and we shall begin the planning. Will that suit you?”
Charles frowned. “I suppose.”
“You are too kind,” Darcy laughed. “I promise I shall not keep you waiting. Who could have guessed that you would be so eager to become a husband.”
“I did not suspect it even of myself,” Charles admitted. “But from the moment I met Jane Bennet, I could not think of anything else.”
Darcy nodded, but he could not sympathize with his friend’s overwhelming emotions. When he had first laid eyes upon Elizabeth Bennet his emotions had been entirely different. That had changed now… and he was ashamed of their first meeting. But it could not be changed. What a story to tell—of how they had disliked each other immediately and then found their way to being husband and wife.
No one would believe it. He scarcely believed it himself.
“I
will,” Elizabeth repeated.
“You will.”
“Yes. Do not make me say it a third time.”
She was exasperated now, but there was nothing he could do to temper that.
Elizabeth and Jane Bennet had come to Netherfield Park for tea, but it was a decidedly different situation than it had been before. Their mother and sisters had also followed close behind, and Darcy was overwhelmed by the questions, exclamations over decor, and all of the… noise that accompanied the visit.
Jane and Mr. Bingley facilitated a tour of the house, while Elizabeth walked several paces behind with Darcy at her side.
He was not certain how to respond to her sudden words, but something like victory flared in his chest. He had done what he promised.
“Mama will wish to know at once,” Elizabeth said. “Though I cannot bear the thought of telling her now. I shall do it tonight over supper. Away from everyone else. I should not like this to be a… spectacle.”
“Of course,” Darcy replied, keeping his voice as low as hers.
“And there are some things I would like to discuss,” she said. “Your expectations—”
“Lizzy! Do come and look at the ballroom! Mr. Bingley has a wonderful idea for the wedding breakfast—”
Mrs. Bennet’s shout was too loud and Elizabeth flinched just a little, whether from embarrassment or because she was startled—or, more likely, a generous mix of both.
“Coming, Mama,” she called back. She glanced at him, her expression blank and unreadable. “We shall speak on this later.”
“Of course,” he replied as she quickened her pace to catch up with her mother and sisters.
The two younger girls laughed loudly and danced together in the middle of the empty ballroom, their voices echoing up into the high ceiling.
He stayed back as Elizabeth , Jane, and Mrs. Bennet followed Mr. Bingley through the ballroom as he explained his plans. He did not, thankfully, mention the possibility of a double wedding… Darcy could see the value in it, and now that Elizabeth had agreed—
But had she really?
She had said yes, but there were caveats that hung in the air between them. Things she wished to discuss…
The discussion he’d had with Charles over what the requirement of the relationship might be nagged in the back of his mind. What if she wished to live separately? Could he grant her that?
Elizabeth stood by the window, looking out at the garden—or what remained of it after the ravages of the first frosts. Charles was preoccupied with answering questions from his new sisters and their mother, and Darcy was able to join Elizabeth at the window.
“This is entirely beyond anything I am able to manage,” Elizabeth muttered.
“But it is a facade that we must maintain,” he said.
“Ah, yes. Mr. Bingley and my sister know the truth of it. Did you tell my father?”
“Of course not.”
“Then what did you tell him to make him agree to this… arrangement?”
“Only that I had come to realize that I admired and loved his daughter… most ardently.”
Elizabeth snorted and shook her head, though it seemed that she was surprised by his admission.
“A pretty lie,” she said stiffly.
“It is no lie,” Darcy said. “Charles has said on many occasions that I am incapable of such things. Therefore, it must be the truth.”
Elizabeth glanced at him and then looked back out the window as though she could not bear to keep her gaze upon him for more than a moment.
“I am afraid that I must disappoint you, Mr. Darcy,” she murmured. “For I do not love you.”
“I know,” he said. “But that does not matter.”
“That much is very clear,” she snapped. “And so, we must discuss your expectations. I should prefer it if this marriage… were in name only. I will be Mistress of Pemberley, but only as it suits me. I shall assist in managing the household and the estate with the help of a capable housekeeper, to whom I shall entrust much of the duties required. I shall also spend a good deal of time away from the estate—Jane will need my help here. And my mother will prevail upon me to assist in arranging marriages for the other girls.”
“Especially as your father does not take kindly to officers in the King’s militia,” Darcy said.
He was taken aback by her precise requests. He had not expected her to be so firm, or that she would express a wish to remain so distant.
Darcy struggled to find a response—Charles had warned him that he should expect some resistance, but he had not been prepared for this.
“I am very pleased to see the animosity between you has been settled,” Mrs. Bennet said loudly.
The smile on Elizabeth’s face seemed false, but Darcy could say nothing as they turned toward Mrs. Bennet.
“Of course, Mama,” Elizabeth said sweetly. “A misunderstanding is easily smoothed over. Especially in the face of such happy and momentous news. I could not remain angry at Mr. Bingley’s dearest friend.”
“Very generous of you,” Jane said dryly, but it did not seem that Mrs. Bennet registered the truth behind her daughters’ words.
It was just as well. With any luck they would not remain in Hertfordshire long enough for their ruse to become a hardship.
“Very nice, indeed,” Mrs. Bennet said with a broad smile. “Now, Mr. Darcy I should like to speak to you about any gentlemen you might know in London—”
Lydia and Kitty’s shrieks of laughter interrupted whatever Mrs. Bennet was about to say, and Darcy breathed a small sigh of relief as she turned away to admonish her younger daughters. Elizabeth’s expression was pained.
“I will apologize for my Mama on many occasions, I am certain of it,” she muttered.
Darcy wanted to speak to Elizabeth further about what she had said, but there was no time. Kitty and Lydia were suddenly anxious to return to Longbourn, and there was some chatter and argument over a box of ribbons—and a promise that Charles had made about new gowns to be made for the wedding.
A brave soul, to say the least.
“But there will not be time to order gowns,” Mrs. Bennet protested. “If you are to be married by Twelfth Night—”
“We had thought to be married before Christmas,” Jane said, cutting off her mother’s exclamations.
Mrs. Bennet’s mouth dropped open as she stared at her eldest daughter.
“What?”
“We should like to be married as soon as possible,” Charles echoed. He took Jane’s hand and held it lightly, and Darcy wondered, fleetingly, if Elizabeth would ever allow him to do the same.
Silence fell over the ballroom as all eyes turned to Mrs. Bennet.
“Wonderful!”
Her screech of joy reverberated through the ballroom and Elizabeth stiffened briefly before her shoulders straightened.
“We shall be very busy with the preparations,” Mrs. Bennet continued. “Mr. Bingley, I do hope that you understand the cost of such things!”
“Whatever is necessary,” Charles replied. “I shall see it taken care of.”
Mrs. Bennet clapped her hands with joy and gathered her younger daughters and herded them toward the corridor. Jane and Mr. Bingley leaned against each other, radiant in their happiness. Elizabeth, however, seemed more angrier than before.
As Jane and Mr. Bingley followed Mrs. Bennet and the other two girls, Elizabeth smoothed down her skirts and prepared to do the same. But as Jane and Charles stepped into the corridor, Darcy took hold of Elizabeth’s elbow to stop her departure.
She regarded him with wide eyes and jerked her elbow out of his grasp.
“What do you want?”
“Only to tell you that I agree to your terms,” he blurted out.
Her eyebrows shot up in surprise. “You do?”
He nodded. “Yes. It shall be a marriage in name only—if that is what you wish.”
Elizabeth’s chin lifted slightly. “It is.”
“I am doing this to protect you, Elizabeth. You and your family. I shall not ask anything of you that you would find…”
“Unpleasant?”
Darcy blinked. “Unreasonable,” he said.
Elizabeth’s lips pressed into a thin line. “Then we have an accord,” she said. “We shall be married.”
Darcy could say nothing more as she turned on her heel and walked across the ballroom toward the open door without looking back at him.
He stood alone in the empty ballroom and took a deep breath.
She was infuriating, but she had agreed. The weight of his guilt began to lift, but he would not be free of it until their vows had been sealed. Then he could turn his attention to bringing George Wickham to justice.
Until then, this small victory would have to be enough.
OceanofPDF.com

20
Elizabeth
T
he announcement of Elizabeth’s engagement to Mr. Darcy was met with an equal uproar in the house. Mrs. Bennet was beside herself with joy and no small amount of satisfaction that she would finally have something worthy of gossip to tell her friends. Lady Lucas would be the first to know, and it would not take long before the rest of Hertfordshire would be offering their congratulations.
Preparations were swift, and Elizabeth was happy to let others take the burden of it. She did not want this wedding, and she could only feign interest in the various tasks that she could not avoid.
Whenever anyone asked her questions about her engagement, she merely averted her eyes and shook her head, refusing to speak about it in any detail. Most people took it to mean that she was shy about the unexpected violence of her love for her intended… And Elizabeth was content to let them believe it.
Jane, however, knew the truth.
“If you are going to pretend to this marriage, you had best pretend a little harder,” she murmured as they were fitted for their wedding gowns. Mrs. Bennet had won her arguments that the brides should have new gowns for their special day. It was enough that they would be sharing the ceremony and the wedding breakfast, so the gowns were a small concession.
Mr. Bingley was, of course, happy to agree.
Flowers had been ordered to be sent down from Mr. Darcy’s hothouse in Derbyshire, and Kitty and Lydia had talked of nothing but how they should like to have fresh flowers in their hair. Something that would never have been possible otherwise.
“I am trying,” Elizabeth whispered back.
“Mr. Darcy has given you everything you have asked for,” Jane reminded her. “You would be wise to give him some sign that all will be well.”
“Will it?” Elizabeth asked. “Will it all be well? I can scarcely believe that such a thing is possible.”
“It must be,” Jane said. “Marriage, as you well know from watching our parents, is what you make of it. If you mean to be miserable, so shall your life be.”
“You are not funny,” Elizabeth grumbled.
Jane smiled. “I was not trying to be.”
“What would you have me do?” Elizabeth hissed as the dressmaker came back into the fitting room.
“I would have you be happy,” Jane said. “At least… try. For my sake.”
Elizabeth let out a heavy sigh and stood still as the dressmaker pinned more ribbon to the bodice of her gown. The ribbon roses that had come from London were far finer than anything she or her sisters had ever crafted, and while she did admire the handiwork of the gown’s design and embellishment, she could not help but feel as though it was all a waste.
“Have Caroline and Louisa answered your letters?” Elizabeth asked.
Jane shook her head. Her sigh was somewhat sad and Elizabeth felt a small surge of anger at the rudeness of Mr. Bingley’s sisters.
They should have come, for their brother’s sake. But it was not as though Elizabeth, or anyone else for that matter, would miss their sour company.
The initial announcement of the engagement and the date of the wedding had been met with a stony silence that was entirely unexpected. Elizabeth had been prepared for threats, begging, all manner of arguments—but when none arrived, she was more than surprised, but she did not trust it in the slightest.
Louisa and Caroline were cunning and canny, and Elizabeth could not believe that they had retreated and admitted defeat so easily.
Although it was apparent that Mr. Bingley’s deception had worked in his favor and caught his sisters off guard, it was not clear how long their peace might last.
“I should like not to think about them,” Jane said firmly. “I should like to focus upon the things that are within my power to control. Like my happiness. My love for Charles—”
Elizabeth could not help but smile. Her sister was well and truly, irrevocably in love with the gentleman. It was the kind of love that she had, herself, hoped for… Something that rushed upon her from the first moment she saw the man she would marry. Something she would have known immediately—as immediately as Jane had known.
Instead, she would be thrust into a union that she did not want. A union that she had nothing but contempt for. It was not Mr. Darcy’s fault that she felt so lost. It was not his fault. He had done nothing but accommodate her requests. All of them. Without complaint or argument.
He had been… wonderful. And yet, she resented the necessity of it. Resented the reason that she was so vulnerable to attack…
George Wickham’s dark blue eyes sprang into her memory. The press of his body against hers— She shivered involuntarily.
“Are you quite well, Miss?” the seamstress asked.
“Yes,” Elizabeth replied. “Quite well.”
The woman nodded absently, for she was not truly listening. Elizabeth could have been honest about what she was thinking and she did not believe that the woman would have reacted with anything more than a pleasant nod or a hum of blind agreement.
“What is your plan after the wedding?” Jane asked. “Will you stay at Netherfield Park?”
Elizabeth sighed heavily. “That is the current plan. Mr. Darcy has not mentioned when he would return to Derbyshire… But I cannot believe that he will wish to stay for very long.”
“No, I suppose not,” Jane said. “But he would not take you away before Christmas?”
Elizabeth was uncertain of how to respond. Perhaps being away from her family for the holiday would be preferable to pretending to be a happily married couple. At least if they were at Pemberley there would be no need for pretence.
“I do not know,” she replied softly.
“Well, you must prevail upon him to stay,” Jane said. “Or, at the very least, have his permission to stay on your own. You would be quite welcome at Netherfield Park.”
Elizabeth smiled and nodded. “Thank you, dearest… We shall have to see what my husband will have to say about it.”
It felt strange to say those words.
It felt even stranger to consider that she might be willing to spend the holiday season, her favorite time of year, away from the people she loved most in the whole world.
But it all felt so hollow, and she did not know if she could bear the burden of the happiness that would accompany it. Perhaps she would be better off alone. Until she could come to terms with her own emotions, she did not trust herself to react properly.
It was selfish… That was clear.
But she was not yet finished mourning the loss of the future she had been promised. She could not forgive herself so easily.
E
lizabeth had imagined her wedding day many times over the years, but never had she imagined that she would be preparing to stand in front of friends and family with Jane by her side as they said their vows.
It was unfortunate that the excitement that should have accompanied the arrival of that happiest day was tempered by the situation that had brought it about.
Jane, of course, was radiantly happy, and Elizabeth fought against the whisper of resentment as she watched Jane go through her final preparations to leave for the chapel.
She was not ready.
When they left that building, they would be different. Every step of their lives had been taken together. They had shared a bedchamber since they were very young and she could count on one hand the nights they had spent apart.
They would never share a bedchamber again.
Elizabeth was not ready for that step.
She had longed for it more than once, as anyone might in the search for independence. But now that she was faced with the reality of it—standing on the threshold of this change—it was almost too much to bear.
“Lizzy, you must not look so sad on your wedding day,” Jane whispered as she came close and grabbed hold of her sister’s hand. “Today is a day of happiness, and promises of nothing but good things that lie ahead.”
Perhaps for you.
The thought bubbled up, unbidden, and Elizabeth pushed it away and smiled instead. “I shall try,” she said. “But only for you.”
“That will have to be good enough. But, Lizzy, I do hope that you will find some regard for Mr. Darcy— He has been very good to all of us. I owe him a great deal for bringing Mr. Bingley back to Hertfordshire…”
“I suspect that it was not a difficult task,” Elizabeth laughed. “The gentleman is well and truly in love with you. Not even his sisters could keep you apart for long.”
“I shall accept that small victory,” Jane said. “Are you ready?”
Elizabeth nodded. She was not ready, but there was no sense in delaying any longer.
Footsteps echoed in the corridor and Jane barely had time to take a breath before Kitty careened into the room. “The carriage is here! It is so prettily decorated, Jane. It is all so wonderful! But you must hurry, Mama is already—”
“Jane! Lizzy! Do hurry!”
Mrs. Bennet’s familiar shouts drew smiles from her daughters, but Elizabeth’s stomach was tight with dread. This was not how she should have felt on her wedding day. It would have been different with George—
No.
It would not have been different.
He had lied to her from the beginning. From the very first. Had he planned it the moment they met?
And if they were married, how long would it have been before he betrayed her?
A week? A month? A year?
How much scandal had she avoided—how much heartbreak?
No.
She had only barely avoided it, and the threat still loomed over her shoulder.
The right choice lay before her, why could she not admit that fact? Why could she not be grateful for Mr. Darcy’s generosity?
Because it was not generosity,
she reasoned.
It was guilt.
She was a burden to him. A burden that he could manage with a little money and a small inconvenience. A marriage of inconvenience. He had saved her from ruin so that his friend could marry Jane. Nothing more. He gained a wife and would no longer have to avoid questions about his bachelor status, and she would not have to face the scrutiny of the people in Hertfordshire when she declined proposal after proposal and then dwindled away into spinsterhood.
Abandoning the duty she had to her family was just as selfish as running away with George Wickham. Both situations were the opposite of everything she had been taught—and yet, she had considered both.
“Come,” Jane said, breaking the spell that Elizabeth had fallen under.
She smiled gratefully and looped her arm through Jane’s. “You are beautiful, sister,” she said warmly. “Mr. Bingley will not be able to keep his eyes off you.”
“Let us hope he listens to Parson Wallace well enough to remember his cues,” Jane said. “I have been practicing so that I do not make any mistakes.”
Elizabeth swallowed hard. She had not been as diligent in her study as Jane, but she could only hope that it would not be noticed, or that she could murmur her way through the lines without much notice taken.
The parson had known them both since they were children, and Elizabeth knew that he would give her some grace if she made a mistake.
Nerves. Surely.
Any young bride would be nervous on her wedding day.
The happiest day of any young lady’s life.
But not Elizabeth. Never her.
S
he had been to several weddings in the last five years, but Elizabeth had never thought that it would be her own that would seem to last far longer than it ever should have. The prayers and songs seemed drawn out and overlong, and by the time the vows were read, she was already exhausted.
Mr. Bingley and Jane were all smiles and had eyes only for each other.
It should have made her happy to see Jane so radiantly beautiful, her eyes brimming with tears of joy—and it did, but the feeling was hollow as she glanced at the gentleman who stood so stiffly by her side.
Fitzwilliam Darcy seemed to have been carved of marble. His expressions were cold, his manners stiff—and he smiled at no one all through the ceremony or after accepting the congratulations of their guests when the ceremony was done and the gold ring weighed heavily upon Elizabeth’s finger.
The carriage ride back to Netherfield Park was almost silent.
While Jane and Mr. Bingley spoke softly to each other, their heads close as they relished the glow of their first moments as husband and wife, Mr. Darcy’s attention was focused straight ahead.
He did not look at Elizabeth, or speak to her, except to offer her a blanket to cover her knees against the cold wind as the open carriage made its way down the road. She did not know what to expect from this union, but she supposed that this
was
what she wanted. Distance. The absence of pretence.
Truth.
Their marriage was not real, and the tension she felt as her thigh pressed against his as she sat beside him on the carriage seat was due to the fact that she could not move away—nothing more.
Their arrival at Netherfield Park was met with cheers and whistles from the house staff, who had come out to welcome them. The ballroom was set with tables and chairs according to Jane’s request, and the kitchen staff had been busy baking and cooking around the clock for the last week in preparation for the wedding breakfast that would host their family and friends. A double wedding was more economical, but Mr. Bingley had spared no expense, and economy was not to be found anywhere close to the estate.
Fresh flowers, many out of season, an army of beeswax candles, and a dozen bowls of punch had already been laid out in preparation for the arrival of their guests. Musicians would play during the meal, and then change their repertoire so that dancing could begin. Lydia and Kitty were the architects of this request—for they would not hear of any event that did not include dancing. They would have complained bitterly otherwise, and Elizabeth was grateful for the accommodation. She would have preferred not to dance, and she knew that her new husband felt similarly. But while her preference was a temporary one, his was more permanent.
A sad reality that she would have to manage in her own way.
She was giving up so much—but it was necessary.
T
he day passed in a blur, and it was very late by the time the final guest had staggered into their carriage and the last of the candles in the ballroom were extinguished.
They were seated in the parlor, the newly married Mr. and Mrs. Darcy.
Alone.
The house was quiet at last, and Elizabeth savored her glass of port, though her head was already swimming with the events of the day and the claret she had drunk on an empty stomach that had been too nervous to accommodate anything more than a few bites of the extravagant feast that had been laid out for their guests.
There was a muted clatter from the ballroom, and both Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy looked up in surprise, locked eyes, and looked away as quickly as they could.
Jane and Mr. Bingley made their way upstairs to their newly prepared bedchamber to enjoy their wedding night. Elizabeth had been nervous about what might happen for the majority of the day, but as the servants disappeared into the depths of the house, and she was left alone with her new husband, Elizabeth found herself at a loss for words…
Thankfully, he spoke before she could force the words out.
“You do not need to say anything,” he said. “What’s done is done, and I have kept my word. There is a bedchamber made up for you. The room is close to mine so that there will not be any talk amongst the servants. We shall go up together, but I shall not ask anything of you.”
“Thank you,” Elizabeth murmured. “That is very kind.”
“It is what you requested,” he replied stiffly. “And I mean to follow our agreement.”
She nodded and took a final sip of her port. “Shall we go up? I confess I am exhausted by the events of the day.”
“As am I,” he admitted. He drained his whiskey and set the empty glass down upon the table before he offered her his elbow.
Elizabeth laid her hand upon it gingerly and they walked toward the corridor. A few servants still worked on clearing away dishes and glasses, and Elizabeth could feel their eyes upon them as she and Mr. Darcy walked to the stairs.
“How long do you intend to stay at Netherfield Park?” she asked suddenly.
He seemed surprised by her question. “I must return to Pemberley in a few week’s time,” he said. “But you may stay here if you wish.”
Elizabeth did not say anything more as they climbed the stairs and walked down the corridor toward the bedchambers. He stopped suddenly and pushed a door open to reveal a delicately appointed bedchamber.
“You may ring for washing water if you wish,” he said. “One of the maids has been instructed to await your instructions.”
“Thank you,” Elizabeth said.
A faint smile crossed his lips. “Good night, Mrs. Darcy.”
She stiffened and the smile faded.
“Good night Mr. Darcy,” she said and dashed through the door and away from the darkness of his eyes and the way he looked at her when he had called her ‘Mrs. Darcy.’
That had not been a part of their arrangement, and neither was the way her heart beat so heavily in her chest.
It was the wine, surely. Or the excitement of the day that had crept past her defenses.
Whatever it was, she wished to be rid of it.
OceanofPDF.com

21
Darcy
T
he first night was the hardest.
It should not have been different than any other night he had spent alone in his life. But for some reason, knowing that he was now in possession of a wife, the fact that he had promised he would not ask anything of her twisted like a knife in his gut.
The profession of love that he had made in her father’s presence—it had seemed impulsive at the time. But in the weeks that built up to their wedding day, the more Darcy had come to admire Elizabeth Bennet’s wit, sharp opinions, the easy way she laughed with her sisters when she thought that he was not looking—and the way her fine eyes swept over him and then darted away at the last possible moment.
It was true—he did love her. Most ardently.
It would have been simple for her to be selfish and headstrong—to behave as though George Wickham’s betrayal had not hurt her so deeply. But she had not given in to the temptation of wallowing in self-doubt and misery, she had made the choice that had brought them both to this point.
But the point—
He paced the room, lit by a single candle, and tried not to think about the fact that she was in the chamber next to his. He could knock upon her door at any moment—
No. He had agreed to her terms. This arrangement was simply that—an arrangement made for one purpose. To protect the Bennet family from the stain of ruin. To ensure that his dearest friend could marry the woman he loves. To ensure that Elizabeth’s three sisters would be able to secure good matches… What Darcy, himself, required was beside the point.
The sacrifice that Elizabeth had made in marrying him was not a hardship… At least, he hoped that it was not.
He had been accused of many things in the past, but never of being a cruel master, or a disloyal friend. Except by George Wickham.
Darcy’s hands tightened into fists at his side.
The scoundrel.
Wickham would see justice one day—but when, or how, was impossible to imagine. If the Colonel’s men found him, he would face a court martial… He would be jailed, or worse. It was nothing the man did not deserve, but Darcy found himself worried about the man’s fate all the same. George Wickham had been like a brother to him… and even his many betrayals could not erase those memories.
Wickham had been given a chance before, even after how he had planned to manipulate Georgiana—but he had squandered that chance to start over and found himself in peril once again. Lessons that were never learned were the hardest of all. What great things could he have achieved if he had not taken the easiest path in life?
It did not bear thinking about.
A man was not the sum of his potential. Only his actions.
And George Wickham’s actions were one of a man who did not deserve a second chance… or a third.
If he ever showed his face in Meryton again, there would be swift consequences for his actions. The Colonel would not allow the desertion to go unpunished, and it was impossible to guess what he had done since he had abandoned Elizabeth.
But how could he abandon such a woman?
Darcy could never do such a thing. But that was the difference between them—it had always been the difference between them. Even when they were boys, George would mock him for choosing the hardest path, or telling the truth even at the price of his own punishment. Some lessons never left.
Perhaps he should have known, even then, that George was on a path to ruin.
But he could not have known, and to blame himself for actions that were outside of his control was useless.
He could only control his own reactions. Which was why he had made the offer of marriage in the first place. Elizabeth needed his help, and in the absence of George Wickham’s oily presence, it seemed the only way to make things right.
Their ruse would have to hold until he departed for Derbyshire.
He hoped that it would be simple enough to keep their secret from the staff at Netherfield Park, but Elizabeth’s family might prove more difficult. Once he returned to Pemberley he would settle into his routine once more. The business of the estate would distract him enough that he would not have to think about anything that happened beyond the hedgerows and hills… Elizabeth could stay in Hertfordshire and tend to her sisters or whatever else suited her. He would, of course, provide for her lifestyle and would consider purchasing a house in London for her to live in comfort…
But his dearest wish was that she would come to Pemberley with him.
He would not mind their arrangement so much if he could be near her. Perhaps she might even grow to love him. It would not be the same, of course, but he had heard of stranger things happening to other couples—those who had despised each other upon their marriage and then, years later, confessed to their private happiness. One that had grown over time as opposed to burning bright at the beginning of their union only to fade as the years passed.
It was a faint hope, but the spark of it was there.
He had seen it in her eyes as he had bid her goodnight.
Perhaps he had only imagined it… But he could not push the possibility away. Their marriage might be in name only… but it was only the first night of their union, and there were many nights ahead of them.
D
arcy had intended to stay at Netherfield Park for a fortnight after their wedding, but as the days passed he began to feel as though his presence was an intrusion. He had never seen Charles so happy… and he, truthfully, began to tire of his friend’s endless praise of his new wife. He wished nothing but joy for the newly married couple, but he could wish them such things from Pemberley. Work awaited, the estate awaited, and Georgiana would be clamoring about his plans for Christmas soon enough.
He and Charles were seated in the drawing room, and while he was supposed to be writing letters, he was decidedly not…
“You are quieter than usual,” Charles said brightly. “Should I be worried about you?”
“Me?”
Charles pointed at the blank page in front of Darcy. “You have been pretending to write a letter for the last hour. How much ink have you wasted?”
Darcy looked down at the paper and grimaced at the size of the ink puddle that stained the page.
“A good deal.”
“What is on your mind?” Charles pressed.
A burst of feminine laughter echoed in the corridor and Charles smiled fondly. “I must admit, it is wonderful to have some noise in the house. It was so dreadfully quiet before.”
Darcy could not argue with that. Caroline and Louisa were not fond of the type of guests or conversation that was happening at that very moment in the parlor Mr. Bingley’s sisters had previously commandeered for their own purposes.
“Indeed,” Darcy said. He paused for just a moment, and then thought better of keeping his worries to himself. “I believe I shall return to Pemberley. It is high time that I took up my duties once more. There is nothing worse than an absentee master.”
“So soon?” Charles exclaimed. “But—”
“I have been away for almost a year,” Darcy said firmly. “My horses will have forgotten me…”
Charles laughed and shook his head. “Impossible. But I do understand. You have been away for quite some time now. Georgiana will have become a fixture in Ramsgate society—will she return to join you?”
“I hope so,” Darcy said. “I must admit that I feel similarly about empty houses and quiet rooms.”
That was not entirely true, Darcy enjoyed his solitude, but the past weeks had been a rush of laughter, guests, and engagements in Netherfield’s various entertaining rooms and it had been a welcome change. The changes the right woman could make to a man’s life were truly a wonder.
Jane Bennet had only been Mrs. Bingley for a matter of weeks and the change in Charles was already evident. If Caroline and Louisa stayed away much longer, Darcy was certain that they would not recognize their younger brother.
The thought brought a smile to his face.
“Well, then let us hope that your new bride will bring as much joy to Pemberly’s halls as mine has to Netherfield,” Charles said brightly.
“Indeed.”
Charles shifted in his seat. “Do you think she will come with you? To Pemberley?”
“I do not know,” Darcy said with a shrug. “If she decides to stay—”
“She will be most welcome here, of course,” Charles said quickly.
Darcy nodded his thanks and turned back to the unwritten letter. He did not even recall to whom he had intended to write. A letter for Georgiana had already been addressed and sealed—she knew nothing of the engagement or the marriage, but Darcy could not keep the news from her for long.
Georgiana had already complained that he had waited too long to find a suitable bride, and she felt pressured to be the one to marry and provide heirs to the estate and family fortunes… Now Georgiana could relax, and Darcy would not be in such a hurry to find her a husband. It was a task he had avoided on purpose for far too long, but perhaps with Elizabeth’s assistance he would be able to leap that hurdle without the worry that usually accompanied his contemplation of the matter.
George Wickham had left his thorns in almost every aspect of their lives, and it had taken Georgiana some time to trust strangers for fear that they were only using her for her fortune…
“When will you leave?”
“In a few days’ time.”
Charles’ eyes widened. “You are in earnest.”
Darcy nodded. “It is necessary, I am afraid. Your hospitality has been wonderful, as always, and you are always welcome at Pemberley.”
“If you decide to host a Christmas ball, we may make the journey north,” Charles said with a grin.
There was not much time left to make such a decision, but it was one that Darcy had considered… although it would be pointless if Elizabeth were to stay in Hertfordshire.
Georgiana would find some excuse to remain in Ramsgate with her friends, and he would be alone… again.
As always.
H
e announced his plans at supper. Charles attempted to cajole him into delaying his departure by a few days, but Darcy would not be deterred. Elizabeth sat silent throughout the meal, and Darcy could not decide how to interpret her mood. He had not known how she might react to the announcement of his intentions, but her silence seemed to indicate that she did not care one way or the other.
In fact, his departure would probably be preferable to her.
He lingered in the drawing room after supper, attempting once again to write a letter. But this time, he was writing to Mrs. Reynolds, Pemberley’s long-serving housekeeper. The house would need to be prepared for his arrival, and she would need time to make all of the necessary arrangements and air out the rooms that he used regularly.
He wished that he could have requested that she make a room ready for his wife—but that was not possible, and he did not wish to think about how the housekeeper might react to the news of his marriage if he were to arrive without a wife upon his arm. Mrs. Reynolds had known him his entire life… he could not bear the thought of her exclamations and questions. Not yet.
He had barely written a paragraph when a tap upon the doorframe startled him.
Elizabeth stood in the corridor and peered into the room. “Mr. Darcy?”
“Please,” he said as he beckoned for her to enter. “You may call me William.”
“I know,” she said. “Mr. Darcy, I must speak to you about your announcement at supper.”
Ah, yes. He stood as she entered, but she waved away his polite gesture and stood in front of the fire.
“You may, of course, stay here if you should prefer it,” he said. “I have already spoken to Mr. Bingley, and he has said that you are quite welco—”
“No,” she interrupted him. “I should like to come with you to Pemberley.”
Her gaze met his boldly, as though daring him to argue with her decision. “I— If that is what you wish.”
“It is,” she said firmly. “I trust that there will be rooms available for me at Pemberley?”
“Of course,” Darcy choked out. “My mother’s rooms will be made up for you. I have no doubt that you will be very comfortable there.”
She nodded and folded her hands at her waist, fingers twisted together.
“Is something the matter?” he asked.
“No—” Elizabeth managed. “And yet— I did not think you would wish for me to accompany you.”
“Why would you believe such a thing?”
Elizabeth’s smile was faint and fleeting. “I do not know.”
“You must know that we shall have to keep the truth of our relationship a secret,” he said. “The servants at Pemberley have known me all my life. They are like family, and Georgiana swears that they know every secret that our family has ever kept. I do not wish to give them any reason to gossip or wonder about us.”
“Of course,” Elizabeth murmured. “But how—”
“I shall move into my father’s rooms,” he said. “There is an adjoining door that we might use—”
“No,” Elizabeth said briskly. “I shall take the chance of our separate sleeping arrangements being discovered. I do not—”
“As you wish,” Darcy said quickly. “I shall see to it at once.”
“And we will depart in a few days’ time?”
“We shall. I will hire a carriage to take you.”
“And how will you travel?”
“On horseback,” he said with a smile. “It has been too long since I have been in the saddle, and I long to be out in the wind and fresh air.”
Elizabeth nodded. “As you like.”
She seemed relieved that he would not be traveling in the carriage with her, and that thought twisted in his gut.
“I have promised my sister that we shall host a Christmas Ball,” he blurted out.
He had, in fact, not promised Georgiana anything of the sort, but he wished to see Elizabeth’s reaction before he made his decision.
But her face did not betray her emotions, she simply nodded. “If you wish it.”
“I—”
“Good night, Mr. Darcy,” she said. Without waiting for his response, she turned and strode from the room, her skirts swishing against the carpet as she walked.
The fire crackled and snapped in the grate, a mirror of his tension.
“Good night, Mrs. Darcy,” he murmured before he turned back to his letter and made the request for his mother’s old chambers to be refreshed and prepared to receive a very special guest—his wife.
OceanofPDF.com

22
Elizabeth
H
er heart pounded in her chest as she climbed the stairs to her bedchamber. She had done it. She had broken her own agreement and asked to accompany him to Pemberley. It would be difficult to keep their secret in an unfamiliar location, and he had reminded her of it— But she could not bear to be at Netherfield Park any longer.
Jane and Mr. Bingley’s happiness was overpowering, and the constant reminder of what lacked in Elizabeth's own life, and especially in her marriage, was a terrible weight to carry.
Her decision was selfish, of course, but the wound was still too raw. Perhaps, in time, she would be able to relish her sister’s happiness, but for now it was too much.
Jane would understand and forgive her.
As she stepped into her bedchamber, Elizabeth was struck by the memory of Mr. Darcy’s expression when she had asked him if she could come to Pemberley. A mixture of surprise, and even hope, had crossed his face as though he did not know what to do with the flood of emotion that accompanied her request.
She was not certain what to do with it, either… She rang for washing water and paced the room until the maid knocked upon the door and came in to pour the jug of steaming water into the washstand.
Elizabeth thanked the girl and closed the door behind her. She pressed her ear against the painted wood and listened to the silence in the corridor. Mr. Darcy—her husband—she must begin to think of him in that way. He was still downstairs in the drawing room. He was writing to the housekeeper at Pemberley to have a room prepared for her.
What a surprise that would be to whoever would receive the letter. Surely, they would not have expected their master to return with a wife upon his arm. It would be overwhelming to arrive at the estate and have the servants ready with expectations and questions… would they wonder what she was like? Or if she were well matched with their master?
Would they call her Mistress?
Or Mrs. Darcy?
She preferred neither.
Elizabeth. She would beg them to call her Elizabeth.
All at once, she was frustrated with her mother. She should have taught them better. Should have prepared them for the life that she had intended for each of them.
She and her sisters were meant to be wives and mothers, mistresses of their own households… And yet Elizabeth had never seen her mother behave in such a capacity. Nor could she recall any conversation about what she might expect in such situations.
At Longbourn, Mrs. Hill managed everything from the meals to the purchase of food, hiring staff, carrying the keys—what example was Elizabeth to emulate when it came time to manage her own household?
Did Jane have such misgivings? Could she even speak to her about it? Elizabeth could only imagine that her sister was facing the same dilemma… Netherfield Park was a large house and a daunting estate, and Elizabeth suspected that Pemberley would be even moreso.
How many rooms? How many servants to be paid and managed?
Her eyes pricked with tears and she blinked them away quickly as she fumbled with the ribbons at the shoulder of her dress to loosen the neckline so she could step out of the fine muslin garment. She draped it over the back of a chair that had been pulled close to the fire and shivered in the chill of the room.
The steaming washing water beckoned, and Elizabeth dipped a square of linen into the water. She sighed as the hot water enveloped her hands and she tried to think of anything but the coming days. It would be hard enough to tell Jane that she was leaving. Her mother would be overjoyed—no doubt she would look forward to an invitation to come north to stay in the beautiful estate owned by the newest addition to the family.
Mrs. Bennet had made a good deal of noise about having to decide where to spend her twilight years. Elizabeth had ignored it for the most part, but if she were forced to consider it—
She paused, the wet cloth pressed against her neck as she listened carefully. There were footsteps in the corridor. Purposeful. Masculine footsteps.
Jane and Mr. Bingley had gone up to bed hours ago.
Which meant that it could only be Mr. Darcy—finished writing his letters.
Elizabeth held her breath as the footsteps slowed, and then stopped in front of her door.
Her heart thudded strangely in her chest as she waited—
But nothing happened. No knock upon the door. No murmur of his voice.
The footsteps moved away and proceeded down the corridor and Elizabeth forced herself to breathe again.
If he had knocked, would she have let him in?
Perhaps
, a voice in her mind whispered.
Elizabeth frowned and dunked the washcloth into the hot water once more.
As she finished washing and dressed for bed, Elizabeth could not help wondering what her husband was doing at that very moment. Was he pacing his bedchamber, lost in thought? Reading? Or was he already asleep?
She set her candle down upon the bedside table and slid beneath the coverlet. She sucked in a breath at the touch of the chilled sheets against her legs, and then pulled the blankets up to her chin. The fire crackled softly as she blew out the candle and settled back against her pillows.
Soon, they would be on their way to Derbyshire, and she would see Pemberley for the first time… She could not even imagine what it might be like, but she had dreamed of a great estate with a lake and black swans upon the glass surface. A creek filled with trout that leapt and flashed in the sunlight flowed by the dirt road that was shaded by stately oak trees…
Surely, it would be something wonderful.
At least, she hoped it would be.
She would discover the truth soon enough.
“Good night, Mr. Darcy,” she whispered to the darkness.
J
ane’s reaction to Elizabeth’s decision was not unexpected.
“Are you certain?” she whispered over tea on the first morning.
“Yes, of course,” Elizabeth replied.
“And he was—”
“Quite amenable to it.”
Jane frowned, but then smiled. “Perhaps this is the beginning of something wonderful,” she said.
“Now, Jane,” Elizabeth admonished. “I have set down very specific rules for our interactions… and this… arrangement.”
“I know,” Jane sighed. “I was only—”
“Well, do not. I beg you,” Elizabeth said. “I shall not stay long, and if you require my presence for any reason, you may write to me and I shall come at once.”
“Do you promise?”
Elizabeth smiled and gripped her sister’s fingers. “Of course.”
T
hey had a similar conversation every morning until she and Jane stood upon the stairs to await the carriage’s arrival.
“Are you certain—”
“I am,” Elizabeth said with a smile. “I shall not be so far away. And Mr. Darcy did tell you that he was planning a Christmas ball.”
“Yes, indeed,” Jane exclaimed. “Charles has spoken of nothing else. I fear that he shall be offering his assistance before Mr. Darcy can ask for it.”
Elizabeth laughed and tightened her arm around her sister’s waist to pull her against her side. “I shall miss you terribly.”
Jane turned and wrapped her arms around Elizabeth. “Oh, Lizzy, I do worry for you.”
“You do not need to worry,” she soothed. “Everything is well now. You have your Charles, and all is as it should be.”
“It is not, and you know it well,” Jane choked out. Elizabeth blinked hard to keep her own tears at bay. Tears did not fix anything, and the carriage was approaching.
“I shall be very well, indeed,” she said firmly, more to reassure herself than her sister. “I shall write to you as soon as we arrive and tell you everything about the ball.”
“And Mr. Darcy’s sister,” Jane said. “I should like to know if all of the stories I have heard of her from Caroline and Louisa are true.”
Elizabeth knew that Jane was more concerned with whether Georgiana really was a better match for Charles, as his sisters had seemed convinced of… Elizabeth knew that the poor girl would have no knowledge of what had been said, and likely did not even know that such an arrangement had been discussed. She felt even more certain that it was a match that Mr. Darcy would not even have considered. She was close in age to Kitty, and the union would have been a disastrous one, no matter how accomplished she might have been.
The carriage was far too large for just one person, and Elizabeth was almost embarrassed when it pulled to a stop in the courtyard.
The footmen leapt down to gather her trunks and valises, laden with all of her clothing, books, and what little finery she had collected over the years.
“I do not know why you are bringing so many books,” Jane laughed as the footmen struggled with the trunks. “Charles has assured me that Pemberley’s library is filled to the brim with books!”
“Ah, yes,” Elizabeth said, “but they are not
my
books!”
“Incorrigible,” Jane sighed. “And I trust that you will gather many more once you are installed as Mistress of Pemberley?”
“Perhaps,” Elizabeth said. “I shall have to demand my own library.”
“Or, perhaps a house in London where you might escape the confines of your estate to read to your heart’s content?”
Jane was teasing her, but Elizabeth felt a pang of bitterness at the thought that her husband might, indeed, grant such a request.
“Are you all right?” Jane asked, suddenly concerned that Elizabeth had not laughed at her joke.
“Quite well,” Elizabeth said with a smile that she hoped was more convincing than it felt.
The clatter of hooves on gravel announced the arrival of Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy who had gone into Meryton to see to some last minute business before their departure.
“We shall ride to London, stay overnight, and then continue our progress north,” Darcy was saying as they pulled their mounts to a stop.
“Will you stay with our aunt and uncle while you are in London?” Jane asked, loud enough for Mr Darcy to hear.
“I— I had not written to them,” Elizabeth stammered. “I did not know if—”
Elizabeth had not seen or spoken to her aunt since the wedding, and her shame at what her aunt knew of her secret still burned hotly in her chest.
Mrs. Gardiner had been nothing but supportive, and her fondness for Mr. Darcy was only a reminder of Elizabeth’s selfish attitude, the one that she could not seem to shake off.
“I have taken the liberty,” Mr. Darcy called out. “Of writing to your aunt and uncle. They will be pleased to welcome us when we arrive in London.”
“Oh,” Elizabeth murmured. She did not know if she would have preferred to travel on without seeing the Gardiners, but it would have been rude to have done so—without even attempting to contact them… Shame and guilt reared up and settled upon Elizabeth’s shoulders even as she tried to shrug away from Jane’s grasp.
“We must not delay any longer,” she muttered.
Jane kissed her cheek and pressed a small package into her hands. “Be safe on your journey,” she said. “I shall expect your letter.”
“As I shall expect one filled with news as soon as you are able,” Elizabeth said.
The footman held the carriage door open for her, and Elizabeth accepted his assistance to step up into the carriage.
“Do you need anything from your valise, Mrs. Darcy?” he asked as he closed the door.
Elizabeth flinched at the use of her new title, but shook her head. “No, I thank you.”
The footman smiled and disappeared to take his post at the rear of the carriage, and the vehicle lurched as he climbed up onto the footplate.
Mr. Darcy brought his horse closer to the carriage and Elizabeth returned his smile with a brief one of her own. She was not ready for this change in their situation—but it was necessary, even if it would make the ruse more difficult to keep in place.
The carriage lurched into motion and Elizabeth took a deep breath as she waved to her sister and Mr. Bingley who stood upon the steps to watch them go.
She swallowed a sob and wiped at her cheeks.
Tears would fix nothing.
All she could control was her own reactions to the events that would befall her.
The thought calmed her just enough that she could feel some happiness at being able to see her aunt and uncle before leaving everything she had ever known behind. The fact that Mr. Darcy had thought of these things without consulting her was…
She shook her head.
It was wonderful.
That was all. He was thoughtful and kind, and everything she did not think that she could have deserved.
To London.
And then on to Derbyshire and a new life at Pemberley.
She smiled as she looked down at the package that Jane had given her. The note upon it cautioned her not to open it until she reached her new home and Elizabeth set it upon the seat across from her with a sigh.
Hands folded in her lap, she leaned back against the seat to watch the winter-pale scenery pass by. She intended to commit the entirety of the journey to memory so that she would not forget where she had come from.
OceanofPDF.com

23
Darcy
D
arcy could not find a rational explanation for the way Elizabeth had reacted to the news that they would be visiting her aunt and uncle in London. He had hoped that she would be pleased, but the surprise had seemed to usettle her more than bring her any joy and he cursed himself for assuming to know what she might have liked.
If he was to break down the rules that she had set out for their union, it would take a good deal more effort than he had initially expected. If anything, it only made him more determined to find the key that would unlock her heart.
She was wounded, he was certain of that. But he had not been the culprit—could she resent her savior just as much? Or the fact that she had needed saving in the first place?
Whatever it was, Darcy was determined to discover the truth of it.
Their arrangement was not ideal—but it was a matter of convenience for him. Pemberley needed a mistress, and he needed a wife. She, on the other hand, did not need him for anything but to distract from the ruin that she had narrowly avoided.
Supper with the Gardiners was delightful, as he had expected it would be. Mr. Gardiner was an avid fisherman, and much to his wife’s horror, he spoke at length about his wish to spend a month doing nothing but traveling to the best fishing lakes and rivers in the country.
Darcy was happy to invite him to Pemberley anytime he wished to ply his rod and lures in the lake and the creeks that ran through the estate.
Elizabeth remained silent through much of the meal, and Darcy had the distinct feeling that he had misjudged her temperament yet again. Would he have to tread carefully around her for the rest of his days?
Perhaps he should have insisted that she stay in Hertfordshire despite her request to accompany him… But why had she asked? He could not bring himself to raise the question for fear that he would upset her all the more. More than a few times he had seen her brush away tears, and he felt somehow responsible for making whatever it was that upset her stop—but what if it was
him
?
With George Wickham gone, what else could be the cause of all her misery?
T
hey stayed in London only for the night—Elizabeth at her aunt and uncle’s house on Gracechurch street, and he at one of the rooms at Docks. The concierge was pleasantly surprised to see him, but Darcy offered no explanation for his arrival, and the man did not press him for details.
He worried only briefly that he might see Caroline or Louisa while he was so close to Mr. Bingley's London house, but he kept a wary eye upon the crowds, and did not see anyone he recognized. The sudden anonymity that the bustling streets provided him after spending so much time in a small country town was refreshing and isolating all at the same time.
But such things never lasted. From London they would be returning to a small country town where everyone knew everyone else’s name, and where his face would be recognized by every person they passed, and a renewed interest would spring up around the unfamiliar face that accompanied him.
However, all of this paled in comparison to the reception that awaited them at Pemberley.
Georgiana’s ecstatic letter had arrived at Netherfield Park just before their departure, and he could almost hear his sister’s exclamations of delight echoing in his ears at the prospect of not only a Christmas Ball, but that he would be bringing his new bride to Pemberley.
Georgiana’s delight was genuine, and he did not have any fear that Elizabeth would be warmly welcomed into her new home.
The only problem was that Georgiana would have taken it upon herself to invite some of her friends to return to Pemberley with her. It would not be a hardship to accommodate them, but Darcy was not familiar with these Ramsgate friends. Though he trusted that the cousins who had hosted Georgiana for the past several months would keep any unsavory characters out of her sphere, he was still cautious.
And, as had so recently been proven, it was with good reason that he was suspicious.
No one could claim that he was overcautious.
They would, of course, be forced to entertain Georgiana’s friends until the ball arrived, but Darcy felt certain that he could stay out of the path of these young rascals without too much trouble.
When they stopped to change horses for the last time before arriving at Pemberley, Darcy took a moment to speak to Elizabeth. She was seated upon a bench outside the stables, a cup of tea in her hand as she waited to climb back into the carriage. She seemed exhausted, but was still able to find a smile for him as he approached.
“Mr. Darcy,” she said. “I trust you are not too tired from the journey?”
“On the contrary,” he said honestly. “I have always been invigorated by travel—but I would suppose that to be due to the fact that I am riding and not trapped in a carriage.”
Elizabeth laughed softly and nodded. “I am certain you are correct.”
“I must warn you of something,” he blurted out.
Her eyebrow rose. “Warn me?”
“My sister, Georgiana— She is decidedly eager to meet you. And she will fling herself upon you at the first opportunity so that you may, in her words, become ‘the very best of friends in the shortest amount of time possible.’”
Elizabeth laughed fully this time and then pressed her fingers to her lips to smother her mirth. It had been some time since Darcy had seen her truly laugh, and it filled his heart with something he could not explain to see a light dance in her eyes once more. Especially as it had been at something he had said.
“She sounds delightful,” Elizabeth said. “I shall be very pleased to meet her.” She paused for a moment, and a wave of concern passed over her face. “Does she know—”
Darcy shook his head. “No. I did not tell her anything more than the fact that you have made me the happiest man in England from the moment when you agreed to marry me.”
Elizabeth looked down at the teacup she held and Darcy felt like a fool. He had meant to say something different—something teasing—but it had not come out properly.
“I—”
Elizabeth glanced up at him. “Do not worry, Mr. Darcy,” she said. “I shall not give Georgiana any cause to believe anything other than that we are very happily married.”
“You must try to call me William,” he said haltingly. “It will be difficult to keep up this ruse if you refuse to call me anything but Mr. Darcy.”
It was a lame attempt at bringing a smile to her face and he was not rewarded for his effort.
“Indeed, husband,” she said stiffly. “I shall do my best to remember.”
A jolt went through him at the use of that title. He had not expected it, or the warmth that spread through his chest to hear her say it. However, his reaction was dimmed somewhat by the formality of her tone, but he smiled and held out his hand to help her up from her seat.
She ignored it and stood without looking at him. “How much farther to Pemberley?” she asked.
“An hour, no more,” Darcy replied.
She nodded and walked across the stable yard toward the waiting carriage. The fresh horses were secured into the traces and stood at the ready. The footmen who had accompanied them from Netherfield Park had left them to return to London, and Darcy greeted their replacements warmly.
He knew the lads well, local boys who had been working at Pemberley since they had been young. Stable lads who had grown up fine and strong and wished to continue in service. He was happy to have them, and to see some familiar faces before their arrival at Pemberley.
Elizabeth accepted no help to step up into the carriage, and he forced himself to smile as he mounted his horse and took hold of the reins.
He could only hope that once Elizabeth was settled into her new chambers that she would relax… perhaps then they could talk. Perhaps then he could return to his quest to heal the wound that had left her so angry and bitter toward him.
There was time for all of that.
If only she would let him prove that his offer, and his declaration of love, were genuine. If she could accept him, and what he had done for her, perhaps all would be well.
For he had not done it for his friend, or her sister, or her family… but for her. And he could not flinch away from that fact. She was stitched into his heart now, whether she wished for it or no.
G
eorgiana, of course, had made good on her word, and rushed out to meet the carriage as they pulled into the courtyard. She was without a shawl or gloves, and Darcy grinned as he jumped down off his horse and caught her up in an embrace.
“It has been far too long,” Georgiana cried. Her voice echoed off Pemberley’s graceful stones as Darcy released her.
“Far too long, indeed,” he exclaimed as he looked her over. She was almost eighteen now, and he felt a stab of guilt to realize that he had failed her in far too many ways… Perhaps now he would be able to make it up to her.
“Is she excited to meet me,” Georgiana whispered.
Behind him, the footmen opened the carriage door and held out his hand to assist Elizabeth in stepping down onto the gravel.
Darcy hoped that she was, but he could not promise anything. His new bride’s moods were unpredictable, but she was accustomed to the company of her sisters, and Georgiana was nothing if not endearing.
“She is, indeed,” he whispered back.
Georgiana’s grin warmed his heart, and they approached the carriage together, Georgiana’s hand clasped in his.
Thankfully, Elizabeth seemed to have shaken off her earlier chill, and as she stepped out of the carriage her smile was warm and engaging. “You must be Georgiana,” she exclaimed. “I am ever so pleased to meet you.”
A rush of relief washed through him as Georgiana curtsied and then embraced the other woman. The sudden gesture was unexpected, but Elizabeth laughed and did not flinch away.
“We are going to be such good friends,” Georgiana exclaimed. “I must know everything about you. William has been ever so secretive and I simply cannot bear it!”
“It has been a long journey,” Darcy said quickly. “I am sure that Mrs. Darcy would like to rest and refresh herself before you pounce upon her…”
“I am quite well,” Elizabeth said with a smile. “Perhaps, sister, you would be so kind as to take me on a tour of the house?”
“I shall, indeed!” Geogiana cried. She grinned up at him and Darcy had to hope that Elizabeth had made some kind of decision as to the life she would have with them. If she were happy here, perhaps things might change.
As the two women walked toward the house, Darcy relished the feeling of calm that always swept over him whenever he returned to Pemberley. He had felt the same sense of it in Hertfordshire, but it was nothing to the feeling of actually being home.
The countryside was good for him, he knew that. The city was too congested, too busy, and there were too many eyes watching everything. Here, he could be himself without fear of judgment.
Pemberley understood him.
Perhaps Elizabeth would feel it, too. He had heard her cry of surprise as the carriage had come down the road. The lake had been beautiful in the winter sunshine, the black swans his mother had loved so well floated gently upon the dark water, and the pine trees that had stood for generations at the sides of the road were lush and thick. The willow that hung over the lake had lost its leaves, but they would return again, soon enough to brush against the surface of the lake and blow in the breeze that swept over the hills.
The almanac had promised snow for Christmas, and he looked forward to long nights in front of the fire, as he always did. But this time, he would have a companion to make those nights seem shorter…
He followed Elizabeth and Georgiana into the house and smiled to hear their bright chatter and laughter.
Charles was quite correct, it was good to have noise in the house. As much as he enjoyed silence and solitude, there was a comfort in noise as well…
Soon enough there would be more noise in the house than he could handle. More voices and laughter joined his sister’s and Darcy realized that she had, indeed, brought her friends from Ramsgate with her. He was not displaced by this, but it did add more stress to his ever-present fear that the ruse of his marriage would be discovered.
More people in the house would mean more people who could discover the truth—that his wife did not love him and that their marriage was a falsehood.
Nevertheless, he had to continue on.
He glanced back to the courtyard as one of the footmen shouted in alarm. Four men struggled to bring down the trunks that Elizabeth had brought with her. Books, he had been told. Three trunks filled to the brim.
A library
, he thought.
That was what she needed
.
Pemberley’s library was already filled with books—floor to ceiling with no room to spare. He would find a space just for her. It would be his wedding gift.
Struck with this new purpose, Darcy went in search of Mrs. Reynolds. There was no time like the present to begin. Whatever letters waited in his study could be delayed for a little longer.
OceanofPDF.com

24
Darcy
T
he weeks before the ball seemed to pass far too swiftly for Darcy’s liking. Although, he could admit that the company was diverting enough to make it seem so. Georgiana’s friends were charming and far less boisterous than he had feared, and he resolved to send a letter to his cousin to commend him on his care of Georgiana while she was at Ramsgate. He knew that he could trust that she was in good hands, but it was nice to have such hopes confirmed.
Elizabeth had settled into life at Pemberley with a speedy grace, and he had often seen her walking in the gardens and through the grounds with a smile upon her face.
Their interactions were polite, but there were hints every so often that there was something more under the surface. The way she touched his arm, when they spoke, or the way she smiled when he brought her something that he knew she would enjoy…
Preparations for the ball had also progressed with speed, and Darcy could say with some certainty that he was looking forward to the event. Charles’ near constant reminders that Pemberley had not played host to a society function in all the years they had known each other had taken its toll.
Georgiana had thrown herself into preparations, and Elizabeth had been eager to help. Invitations had been dispatched with lightning speed, and the replies had flowed back with equal haste. It was to be a well-attended affair, and though he tried to hide it, the prospect of having so many people in the house had put him on edge.
Musicians had been booked, the menu planned, and more servants had been hired on to accommodate the guests who would be staying in the house. The Lambton Inn would be filled to capacity, as would many of the rooms in the house. Mrs. Reynolds never seemed to falter, and she would tell anyone who would listen of the grand masques and balls that were hosted by Darcy’s mother and father so many years ago.
“Are you quite well?”
Darcy was startled by the press of a hand against his shoulder. He had been in his study, the ledgers and letters for the management of the estate laid out in front of him. He had written half of a letter, and made some annotations in the ledger, but that was all. A failure of a morning’s work.
“Elizabeth, I did not hear you come in.”
She gestured toward the open door. “Georgiana sent me to find you, she wished to have your opinion on the centerpieces and the boughs that were cut for the fireplace.”
“I am certain that they will be lovely,” he said.
Elizabeth smiled. “They are. But she would be happier to have you say it, I think. Will you come?”
He set down his quill and pushed his chair back. “I cannot deny my sister’s summons,” he said with a smile.
“She has done so well,” Elizabeth said as they walked down the corridor together. “I do think she would have been able to manage everything without my help.”
“All the same, I am grateful that you were her to guide her. She has had precious little support in that arena…”
“She is of a similar age to Kitty,” Elizabeth said warmly. “I find it easy to talk to her, and she is quite funny.”
He felt the urge to take Elizabeth’s hand in his, but he resisted. She had been affectionate with him, but he did not wish to ruin anything by being overzealous.
“Will you dance with me?” he asked.
“At the ball?” Elizabeth looked at him in surprise. “Of course I shall. Would you wish for me not to? I know you do not enjoy it.”
“No. No, indeed,” he said and then realized that his response had been confusing. “That is to say, I do not usually enjoy dancing. But I would enjoy dancing with you…”
He grimaced at his own awkwardness, but Elizabeth smiled.
“It will be a wonderful evening,” she said. “And it would look very odd, indeed, if the hosts of the ball did not share a dance, do you not agree?”
“Of course,” he choked out. “Very odd.”
He stopped at the top of the stairs and Elizabeth paused. “What is it?”
“Has this been a hardship for you?” he asked. “To…”
“To pretend that we are a loving couple?” she asked.
He nodded and swallowed hard. Every evening when they went upstairs, they bid Georgiana and her friends goodnight, entered his chambers, and then waited in silence as the noise in the house quieted. As soon as it seemed safe to do so, Elizabeth would bid him goodnight and then leave the room to creep down the corridor to her own chambers.
It was a ritual that left him heartsick every night. And every night he cursed himself for not asking her to stay. He wondered if she felt the same—or if it were a relief that he had not asked.
“No,” she replied, and it seemed that the answer surprised her. “No, it has not been. You have been very generous, and kind, and I could not have… That is, I did not expect that I could be happy here. I thought that I would miss my family terribly.”
“But you do not?”
She shook her head. “Their letters are enough, for now. Jane is deliriously happy in her marriage, Mama is distracted with Kitty and Lydia, and Mary is… Mary. They will tell me all of their news when they arrive. Although, I do expect that I shall be called back to Netherfield very soon.”
“Oh?”
Elizabeth smiled. “I do believe that Jane is with child… and she will need my support.”
Darcy’s throat tightened. “Of course,” he managed. “You may stay as long as you like.”
Elizabeth’s smile faltered just a little, but she recovered quickly. “Shall we go down? Georgiana will be waiting.”
He nodded shortly and they continued down the stairs, but Darcy could not shake his discomfort. Was it that she had asked to leave Pemberley that worried him? Or how she had reacted to his quick approval?
Georgiana’s eye for decoration was immediately apparent as they entered the grand foyer and Darcy was impressed by the amount of detail that she had applied to each decoration that appeared. Golden painted apples, bundles of holly and nuts, pinecones dusted with shimmering gold powder—he did not wish to look at the amount of money that had been spent, but, as Mrs. Reynolds would agree, Pemberley was overdue for a ball, and he did not care a whit about the cost.
“Is it not lovely?” Elizabeth breathed. “As soon as the guests enter the house, they will be swept away. There is more velvet and fabric arriving today to be hung in the entranceway to keep guests from wandering the house and direct them to the ballroom.”
“Wonderful,” he murmured.
And it was. The air was filled with the fresh scent of pine and the spice of mulled wine. The ballroom had been transformed by swags of dark velvet and the rich green of the pine boughs that had been cut from the forest behind the stables.
Candles filled every window sill, and tables had been set out ready to hold plates of food and bowls of punch.
“William! There you are,” Georgiana cried. “He has been hiding from my preparations, but I knew that you would be able to find him!”
She laughed gaily and rushed over to kiss Elizabeth’s cheek and then his. “Do you not adore it?” she asked. Her grin was wide and her eyes sparkled with mirth and pride.
“I do, indeed,” he said truthfully. “It is unlike anything I have ever seen. You will be lauded far and wide as a woman with an eye for luxury and taste—”
Georgiana laughed and slapped her palm against his chest. “You are teasing me now,” she cried. “But it is rather lovely, is it not?” She pointed to the tables. “It was Lizzy’s suggestion that we put boughs on the tables, and that the apples should be painted gold as well. And I do love it. The candles were a bit of an extravagance, but I know that you do not mind.”
“I prefer the smell of beeswax above all others,” Darcy vowed, which only made Georgiana laugh harder.
“It will be a wonderful evening,” Elizabeth said, and Darcy could hear pride in her voice as she looked over the decor and the servants who bustled about the room making certain that the velvet hung correctly and draped over the floor in elegant patterns. It would be safe to assume that the servants were just as excited about the prospect of a ball as they were. It had been far too many years since there had been any revelry at Pemberley, and it was time to end that.
As though she could hear his thoughts, Georgiana leaned against his shoulder. “It is a new era for us, brother,” she said. “You are married now, and there will be much to celebrate in the years to come. I can feel it.”
Darcy smiled down at his sister and laid his hand upon hers. He could not tell her that there would be nothing to celebrate. No births. No parties or social events. After the ball, Elizabeth would leave Pemberley to be with her sister in Hertfordshire… There was no way to know when she would return, or if she would at all.
Perhaps she would ask for a house of her own in London. One that she could fill with books and her own friends and enjoy a life that did not include him.
“Our guests will begin to arrive tonight,” Georgiana said briskly as she pushed away from him and rushed over to help one of the servants with a large length of velvet fabric.
He glanced at Elizabeth and met her gaze, surprised that she was looking at him. “You needn’t worry,” she murmured. “All will be well. You shall see.”
Her gentle reassurance made him smile and buoyed his spirits just a little. She was right, of course, it would be a wonderful evening, but he could not shake a feeling of dread that accompanied all of the preparations. He took a deep breath and tried to concentrate on what would be happening over the next few days.
Guests would begin to arrive, the ball would commence, and then all would be as it was before and he would have to face the reality of Elizabeth’s departure.
T
he Bingleys were the first to arrive, but Darcy had expected that. Jane was apologetic that Louisa and Caroline could not attend, but Darcy was unsurprised.
The invitations had been a formality only. He had known very well that they would decline or pretend that they had never been received.
It would have been Louisa who would have made the decision. Caroline was always eager to stir up trouble, but Louisa was very quick to decide when things were beneath her notice. She had always taken issue with Caroline’s insistence on pushing Charles toward Georgiana, and now that matter was well and truly settled.
Caroline had nothing left but her bitterness, and that was not entertaining enough for Louisa. Caroline would need to find a new pursuit.
Elizabeth brightened immeasurably with her sister’s arrival, and Darcy felt a pang of regret as they whispered and laughed together. Elizabeth had come to treat Georgiana as a sister, but this relationship was deeper, and he could not begrudge her desire to return to that closeness.
More guests arrived, and Georgiana and Elizabeth shared hostess duties with ease. Darcy admired everything Elizabeth did, and found it almost impossible to take his eyes off her as she moved through the room to speak to every guest and ensure that they had everything they needed.
Her family’s arrival was another spectacle, both of noise and excitement. Kitty and Lydia attached themselves to Georgiana in an instant and swept her away in a tornado of laughter and shrieks of excitement.
Mrs. Bennet took all of Elizabeth’s focus away and Darcy tried to distract himself with other duties as guests began to fill the house and the space he had to escape the noise of the house dwindled.
The ball was only hours away, and there was too much to do.
O
verwhelmed was the only word that Darcy would have chosen to describe himself that evening.
The musicians played endlessly, conversation, champagne, claret, and rum punch flowed in equal measure. The food was exquisite, and Darcy could find no fault with any of the plans that had been made. The evening was, in short, perfection.
Mrs. Reynolds had remarked on more than one occasion that it was the finest ball to have been held at Pemberley in all the years that she had been employed there—which, in her own estimation, was no small feat.
Darcy’s pride in his sister’s accomplishment was only eclipsed by his awe for Elizabeth. She had stepped into the role of Pemberley’s mistress with an ease that he had not expected, and she shone as she moved through the crowd. But it was when she turned her gaze upon him that he was suddenly lost.
“William,” she said. “Are you quite well?”
Stunned by her use of his name, he could not answer at first. “I— Yes. Quite well. The evening has been wonderful, as you promised it would be.”
“It was an easy promise to make,” she said with a smile. “Will you dance?”
Another surprise. But somewhat dimmed by his remembrance that she had agreed they would dance to keep appearances where they should be.
“Of course,” he replied.
As they made their way to the dance floor and took their position amid the other couples, Darcy tried to forget how many people were watching him. Instead, he focused on Elizabeth and the way her fine dark eyes sparkled in the candlelight. Her gown was ivory silk with dark chocolate colored accents at the hem and shoulders that matched the hue of her dark hair which had been set with pearl-headed pins. He was startled to notice that she wore a comb of seed pearls which had belonged to his mother—that had been Georgiana’s doing, he was certain of that.
A cunning and sweet gesture, to be sure.
When she laid her hand upon his, Elizabeth’s smile made his heart beat a little faster.
But what he had expected to end with only one dance became two, and then three, and then six. It was not until Elizabeth, cheeks pink with exertion and laughter, asked if he would like a drink that he even thought to stop. Being with her was intoxicating and he could not stop smiling.
But as they made their way to the punch, Darcy noticed one of the footmen at the door of the ballroom. His expression was pinched with concern, and Darcy knew immediately that something was amiss.
“Will you excuse me,” he said quickly.
“William? What is it?” Elizabeth held two glasses of punch, and her eyes were wide.
“It is nothing,” he said quickly. “I shall return in a moment.”
Elizabeth merely nodded, her gaze following his to the anxious footman in the doorway. “Go,” she murmured. “I shall be waiting for your return.”
Darcy strode across the room, apologizing to those who tried to stop him as he passed.
“What is it?” He kept his voice low so that he would not be overheard. The footman looked relieved to see him.
“There is something—”
“What?”
“One of the grooms reported seeing a stranger on the property. An intruder… lurking around the stables.”
“We have many guests here,” Darcy said. “Are you certain it was an intruder?”
The man nodded gravely. “You had best come and see for yourself, sir.”
Darcy nodded and gestured for the man to lead on. He chanced a glance back into the ballroom and saw Elizabeth standing where he had left her. She lifted her chin and smiled at him, and he carried that warmth with him as he stepped into the corridor to follow the footman.
The night was dark and cold, and there were only a smattering of stars visible through the clouds that tracked overhead. The almanac had called for snow and the air smelled of it.
And something else.
Smoke.
In the shadows at the edge of the torchlight that illuminated the courtyard and the carriages of his guests, Darcy could see three figures struggling with another. Grunts and curses accompanied the movement and he strode across the gravel with purposeful steps.
“What is the meaning of this?” he growled.
One of the grooms met Darcy’s angry glare. “We found him behind the stables, sir,” he choked out. “He was trying to start a fire—”
That was the smoke he could smell.
“We doused the blaze before it could catch the fodder,” another man said. Their captive grunted and tried to pull away again, but the grooms held him tightly.
“Bring him into the light,” Darcy snarled. “How dare you endanger the horses and the lives of my men—”
His words were cut off as the grooms pushed their quarry into the light.
George Wickham.
“Happy Christmas, William,” George spat. His nose was bloodied, and his teeth were stained red with it, giving his grin a ghoulish flair. He tilted his chin toward the house as a burst of laughter floated toward them. “I see you are celebrating in grand style.”
“Why are you here?” Darcy snarled.
“To see you, of course,” George said. “And my dear Georgiana.”
“You are not wanted here.”
“Of course I am,” he said, incredulous. “I am a son of Pemberley, I merely wished to pay my respects and take a glass of brandy with your guests.”
“You are no son of Pemberley,” Darcy said flatly. “You are the reason my father went to an early grave—but you would never admit that.
George Wickham’s laughter was mocking and Darcy’s hands tightened into fists at his sides.
“I heard you were married,” George continued. “But imagine my surprise when I discovered the identity of the bride. To know that you have married my own darling; Miss Elizabeth Bennet.”
“You will not speak her name,” Darcy snapped.
“Does it bother you to know that I had her first?” George asked with a red-stained smile. He stared into Darcy’s eyes, willing him to respond, but when he did not, George’s smile widened. “Ah… so you have not had her yet…”
One of the grooms let out an outraged cry and drove his fist into Wickham’s jaw, rocking his head back.
George laughed and spat a mouthful of blood onto the gravel.
“Enough,” Darcy roared. “Take this dog back where he belongs.”
“But, William,” George protested. “This is where I belong!”
“No. You will never see Pemberley ever again.” He gestured to the footman. “Take a carriage and escort this scoundrel back to Hertfordshire.”
George’s expression twisted. “What?”
“Send him back to the militia garrison with my regards. Colonel Forster will be eager to see his face.”
“No!” George cried. “No, William, you cannot!”
“Get him out of my sight,” Darcy growled as he strode back to the house.
Wickham’s shouts pierced the night, and Darcy hoped that they would not be heard above the musicians and the volume of conversation in the ballroom. His heart thundered in his chest, and his hands ached to beat George Wickham to an unrecognizable pulp. How dare he show his face here— How dare he endanger the horses— How dare—
Elizabeth stood in the corridor. Her hands folded at her waist.
“Is everything all right?” she asked.
Darcy forced a smile onto his face. “Of course,” he said. “Nothing is amiss. As I suspected. One of the horses broke free of the stables and had to be caught. Nothing to worry about.”
“I thought I heard a dog barking—”
“Perhaps,” Darcy said. “But he has been muzzled and shall not trouble you again.”
Elizabeth laid her hand upon his arm. “Will you dance with me again?”
“I should like nothing better,” he replied and allowed her to lead him back to the ballroom.
OceanofPDF.com

25
Elizabeth
I
t was difficult to pretend that she had not seen everything that had happened in the courtyard.
She had heard everything that George Wickham had said. Every scandalous, insulting, infuriating word. And she hated him for it. Hated him for coming back to Pemberley. Hated him for everything he had done to William and his family.
She realized at once that, without Colonel Forster’s influence, there would have been no justice for anything George had done. For what was a crime done against a woman? Especially one who could do nothing but accuse him of—
No, she would not think of it.
The past was best left where it belonged: behind her.
Elizabeth was shaken by what she had seen, by what she had heard, but she could not give any sign of what had happened. She was supposed to have stayed in the ballroom as she had been instructed. What had happened was not meant for her eyes or ears.
But there it was—stitched to her memory.
However, it was not George Wickham’s bloodstained face that stuck in her mind. It was Mr. Darcy’s. Her husband. His pained expression; the way he had changed when George had insulted her— His strength. His resolve. The insult and hurt that he bore without complaint and did not let show…
When the groom had struck George in the face, it could easily have been William’s ffist that had connected with his jaw. But he had held back—his restraint was what she was most proud of. Any other man would have allowed his emotions to take hold. To control him. And that was how George Wickham would have won… breaking away the last resistance of pride that kept her husband on a level above him.
But William had stood fast.
He had resisted the urge to take his revenge. He had stayed aloof and handed George over to the justice he deserved.
Colonel Forster would not be moved by anything that George Wickham might have to say.
Fierce pride beat in Elizabeth’s chest with her hammering heart as they rejoined the ball.
Georgiana was in the center of the dance floor, a laughing vision in gold and pale green silk, and Elizabeth swallowed any doubt she might have had and took hold of her husband’s arm and pulled him toward the dancers. “Come,” she said. “We have a good deal of evening ahead of us—”
“Will you take a drink with me,” Mr. Darcy asked suddenly.
Elizabeth paused. “Of course.”
“I feel somewhat parched—”
She nodded and they walked together toward the punch and champagne, and her husband poured two glasses of the bubbling liquid. Elizabeth had not tasted champagne before, and she examined it carefully before taking a sip.
“Do you like it?”
Elizabeth wrinkled her nose. “I am not certain. It will take some getting used to…”
Her husband chuckled. “I have a cellar full. My mother was quite fond of it, and my father purchased cases of it to store in the cellars… it will take years to make any sort of progress through the collection.”
“How delightful.” Elizabeth coughed and took another sip. The taste was different to anything she had experienced before, and it was not unpleasant… not at all.
“Is everything…” she began and then paused. “Was anything amiss?”
Mr. Darcy’s brow rose, but then he smiled and shook his head. “Not at all. There was some trouble at the stables, but the grooms were able to manage without any assistance. Capable lads, all of them.”
“That is good to hear,” Elizabeth murmured.
Her husband’s expression was difficult to read, but he glanced toward the windows that looked out toward the courtyard and then looked back at her. On the dance floor, the musicians reached the end of their song, and Mr. Darcy drained the last of his champagne and held his hand out to her.
“Will you dance, Mrs. Darcy?”
“Indeed, Mr. Darcy,” she said. Elizabeth gulped down the remainder of the bubbling liquid in her glass, laughed as it tickled her nose, and covered her mouth before she placed her hand in his and followed him to the dance floor.
T
hey danced long into the night. Longer than she ever would have expected. Until the guests began to dwindle and the musicians began to yawn.
“We should bid our guests goodnight,” Elizabeth murmured as the dance ended.
“Should we?” Mr. Darcy asked with a lazy smile. “What if we just stayed here and danced until they all went to bed and left us alone?”
Elizabeth laughed and shook her head. “Most unseemly,” she said.
“A pity,” he sighed. “But I suppose we have rules to follow, do we not?”
Was that bitterness in his words? Did he mean to hurt her?
“We are the hosts of the evening,” she admonished him. “There are expectations. And besides, the musicians are falling asleep in their chairs. It is unkind of us to keep them.”
Mr. Darcy wrapped an arm around her waist and spun her on the dance floor until she let out a choked shriek of laughter.
“William! You must stop!”
“Only because you used my name,” he whispered in her ear as he set her on her feet once more.
Elizabeth’s cheeks warmed as his dark gaze swept over her.
“Will you behave now?” she murmured. “We should bid our guests good night.”
“As you wish, Mrs. Darcy.”
“I do,” Elizabeth sighed, but her cheeks still burned from their closeness.
They thanked the musicians and dismissed them to the vehement applause of the guests who remained in the ballroom. The weary gentlemen bowed and took their leave and Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy moved through the room, thanking the couples and others who remained—they could, of course, stay up as long as they pleased. The claret, punch, and champagne would be left out for their enjoyment, but the servants were dismissed with their gratitude.
To the applause of their guests followed the pair out of the ballroom as they walked down the corridor, across the foyer, and pushed aside the swags of velvet fabric to reveal the staircase hidden behind.
They climbed the stairs, side by side, Elizabeth’s hand upon her husband’s elbow. She went through the same motions every evening, the formula to keep their ruse hidden from Georgiana and her friends, and this night was no different.
Except for the fact that the house was filled with guests whose chamber doors stood open. Conversation filled the air, and Elizabeth was acutely aware that everyone they passed smiled and wished them a pleasant evening. Some were drinking and laughing, continuing the celebrations in their chambers with their friends or new acquaintances they had made during the course of the evening.
Elizabeth swallowed hard as they reached her husband’s chambers at the end of the corridor.
On any usual evening, they would give every pretense of retiring and then Elizabeth would wait until the corridor was quiet before she would creep back to her own chambers at the opposite end of the corridor.
But this night—
As the door closed behind her, Elizabeth felt a sudden desperation—she would not not be able to leave without being seen.
Darcy seemed to know precisely what she was thinking and he grimaced as he pulled at his neckcloth.
“I believe you shall have to stay here tonight,” he said. “I shall sleep on the floor—”
Elizabeth bit her lip to steady herself and pushed away from the door. “Will you tell me what happened tonight? Truly?”
Mr. Darcy regarded her carefully as he tossed his neckcloth over the back of a chair and shrugged out of his jacket. “I— I do not know—”
Elizabeth reached out with shaking hands to unbutton his waistcoat. “I saw… from the doorway.”
“What did you see?”
His dark eyes were unreadable, but Elizabeth could not look away. “I saw Mr. Wickham…”
“He came to cause trouble,” Darcy said shortly.
The last button slipped through Elizabeth’s fingers and her breath caught as he took hold of her hands.
“He set fire to the stables—”
Elizabeth gasped and tried to pull her fingers from his grip, but her husband held them tightly.
“He did not succeed,” he reassured her. “All is well. The grooms caught him in the act and dragged him back to the house…”
“What he said—”
He shook his head. “You must not think about it,” he said.
“I do not think about him at all,” Elizabeth murmured.
The gentleman’s eyes were soft and full of regret and Elizabeth’s heart beat strangely in her chest as she met his gaze and then rose up on her tiptoes to press her lips to his.
It was entirely unexpected—an impulsive movement that she knew she might regret. But from the moment their lips touched, she knew that she would never forgive herself for waiting so long.
William’s lips were soft and yielding, and it took only a moment before his arms wound around her and pulled her against his chest.
He had asked nothing of her.
Nothing.
He had given everything freely… but why? Why was she so reluctant to admit that she already knew the answer.
It was in every gentle touch of his hand, in the tentative way he held her now. In his actions…
He loved her.
Most ardently.
Her eyes drifted closed as she pressed against him and wound her arms around his neck.
When their kiss broke, his eyes were darker, burning with an intensity that took her breath away.
“Elizabeth—”
“Will you come to bed, husband?”
“I—”
Elizabeth looked up at him, her heart pounded in her chest and stole her breath away as she allowed the last of her defenses to fall away.
He loved her.
And she, against her will, perhaps, loved him too.
“Are— Are you certain?”
Elizabeth nodded. She had never been more certain of anything in her life. “Please?”
O
utside Pemberley’s graceful walls, the snow promised by the almanac fell upon the gentle hills that surrounded the estate as though sealing in place everything that had happened that evening. Sealing their love, and their acceptance of each other—as flawed and perfect as they were for each other, under a blanket of pure white now.
OceanofPDF.com

Epilogue ~ Elizabeth
6 MONTHS LATER
“R
ead it to me again,” William said sleepily.
His head rested against the gentle swell of her belly and Elizabeth smiled as she ran her fingers through her dark curls and wished for the seventh time that day that their child would favor his father…
“Dearest Lizzy, I can think of no one else that I would rather have at my side for the birth of my child than you, my dearest sister. Please say that you will return to Hertfordshire to help me welcome your nephew into the world. You may stay at Netherfield Park as long as you please… Though I will say that Charles would be very sad if his dear friend did not accompany you, you will be more than welcome however you might arrive. Do not wait too long, Lizzy, Dr. Foxton does not believe that this child will wait much longer to arrive.”
“Oh, dear,” William murmured against her belly.
“We must leave at once,” Elizabeth said.
“Must we?”
Elizabeth slapped at her husband with the letter. “Of course we must!”
William’s hand rubbed over her belly and he cuddled closer. “Are you certain?”
She sighed heavily as the child in her belly moved with his father’s prompting. “I am. Jane will do the same for me when my time comes.”
William groaned and rolled away, and Elizabeth felt a twinge of regret to see him sit up and stretch. She reached to brush her fingers over his ribs and he twitched away with a choked laugh.
“We shall arrange a carriage for you,” he said.
Elizabeth sat up higher on the bed. “You will not come with me? Mr. Bingley all but begged you to come!”
“I have been thinking about purchasing a home in London,” he continued as though he had not heard her. “I know we had discussed something of that nature… a place for you to escape your terrible husband.”
Elizabeth crossed her arms over her breasts and glared at him until he laughed.
“I shall not go to London,” she said petulantly. “Besides, what a scandal would there be that Mrs. Darcy, wife of the great and magnanimous Fitzwilliam Darcy, would be in London all alone—pregnant! You would not allow me to leave Pemberley unaccompanied in my condition… would you?”
He turned back to her and gathered her into his arms. He pulled her against his chest and held her gently.
“Never would I allow you out of my sight,” he murmured. “You must know that by now.”
She could not continue her facade and smiled up at him. “I know it very well,” she whispered as she kissed him. “Will you come to Netherfield Park with me?”
“I will,” he replied. “We have nothing to hide, and everything to celebrate. I shall be the poorest of friends if I did not come to support my dear friend in his newest joy.”
Elizabeth smiled and kissed her husband firmly before he pulled away and tugged on a pair of breeches.
She watched him move about the room, admiring the way the early morning light caressed the planes of his bare torso.
“I have something to show you,” he said suddenly.
“You do?”
He held out her robe. “Come along, Mrs. Darcy,” he cajoled her. “Come and see what I have done. And then we shall have breakfast and plan our journey to Hertfordshire.”
“I must write to Jane,” she said. “There is no time, we will leave at once, but I must give you this gift first.”
Elizabeth frowned, but she was not serious. She slid out of bed and allowed her husband to help her into her robe. He wound an arm around her thickened waist as he led her from their chambers and into the corridor. With summer approaching, the house was warmer and Elizabeth looked forward to the summer days when she could wander the grounds without a shawl over her shoulders and visit the lake without the fear of a chill.
Mr. Darcy led her through the house, down to the main floor to an area of the house that she had only explored briefly during the early days of her arrival.
“What is this?” she asked.
Darcy pushed open a door and Elizabeth let out a gasp of surprise to see a room that had been transformed.
She remembered the space, but it had been a dark and derelict room, empty of furnishings when she had first seen it. Now it was a bright and airy library that had been fitted with floor to ceiling shelves, soft lighting, and comfortable chairs arranged near the small fireplace which would warm the room to a comfortable temperature in the winter months.
But the shelves were what caught her attention.
“William— My books!”
Her voice was strangled as she recognized her favorite volumes. She stepped into the room and ran her fingers down the familiar spines of the books she had brought from Longbourn.
“But—”
“I have been waiting for this day for far too long,” he admitted. “But it was exceedingly difficult to have any work done under your watchful eye.”
His smile was indulgent and Elizabeth laughed as she fell into his arms.
“My own library,” she murmured.
“Your very own,” he said. “And we shall fill it with every book that strikes your fancy… that is a promise.”
Elizabeth smiled as she tipped her chin up to accept his kiss.
As long as she and Jane had planned for their perfect weddings and imagined their perfect husbands… she could never have dreamed that she might find such a thing in the one gentleman she had been determined to hate with every part of her being…
He was everything she had never known she would need.
Everything that was right with the world, here in her hands.
The very deepest love was not an accident. It was purposeful… but never in the way she might have expected. And it was perfect—perfect for her.
As it should be.
The End.
OceanofPDF.com

Also from Blue Flowers Press
An Almost Forgotten Love
The Cruelest Season
A Blushing Bride
A Troublesome Tenant
A Season of Love
A Missed Engagement
Unapologetically, Elizabeth
Officer Darcy
An Unexpected Joy
Elizabeth’s Deception
Meryton Mysteries
The Trouble with Lords
The Trouble with Officers
Run Away to Pemberley ~ A Pride & Prejudice Coloring Book
OceanofPDF.com