OceanofPDF.com

M. K. Lewis
The Never List
OceanofPDF.com

Copyright © 2025 by M. K. Lewis
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise without written permission from the publisher. It is illegal to copy this book, post it to a website, or distribute it by any other means without permission.
First edition
This book was professionally typeset on Reedsy
Find out more at
reedsy.com
OceanofPDF.com

“Life is what you make of it. So do something. Do something brave. Do something unexpected. But do something, because you have four women in a jail cell who are desperately hoping for a reason to believe there’s still a reason to believe. So do something, goddammit, because this isn’t the end of the freaking story.” - Sharon, Book Club: The Next Chapter
OceanofPDF.com

Contents
DISCLAIMER
The Never List
OFFICIAL PLAYLIST
1. My Allergy To Love
2. If You Hate P.E. Clap Your Hands
3. Meet Your Poster Boys
4. So I Punched A Guy In The Face
5. Worse Than Detention
6. Roadtrip to Yee-Haw
7. Rock-Paper-Scissors-West
8. The Grandson Effect
9. First Rule of The Never List is…
10. LIES, DECEIVING INFORMATION AND BETRAYAL
11. Many Death Wishes
12. No One Saw That Coming. No One.
13. I Am THAT Stupid
14. Plan To Fail
15. Highschool Sweethaters
16. Brown and West, Sitting On a Tree…
17. Crazy Jared Kind Of Has a Point
18. Dinner With The In-Laws
19. Aunt Lori And The Three Minions
20. Riding My (Pink) Bike Down The Hood
21. I Am Sort of Socially Inept? Shocker.
22. Jake and His Sexiness While Taking Care of Kids
23. Stuff Like This Only Happens In The Woods
24. I’m CONFLICTED While On a Bike
25. Emotionally Unpacking My Trauma In a Castle
26. Daniel-San Would Be Proud of My Skills
27. Once Upon a Wedding Invitation
28. Mailview’s Most Respected Bachelorettes — And The Boys Beating Stuff With Sticks
29. Rain In The Summer Is My Guilty Pleasure
30. The Boys Are Back in Town
31. Smashing It as a Girlfriend
32. I Don’t Even Know What’s Happening
33. I Do (Jake Cries)
34. Bangerz Really Is A Hit To The Head
35. There’s No Going Back
36. The Omen
37. Trying Not To Butcher Elton John
38. Denial Is A River In Egypt (I’m NOT in love)
39. I Knew Something Was Off
40. It Can Get Worse
41. loml
42. Guilt Tripping Me From Above Is Not Cool
43. Self-Destructive Mode Is Real Fun
44. Past Tense
45. Zeus And His Curse
46. LOML
47. My Mom’s Gonna Destroy My Bike
48. Talking To Stone (No Offense)
49. Against All Odds, I’m In The Bleachers
50. Friday Night Lights Confessions
51. Your Favorite Leo’s Birthday (aka The Epilogue)
52. Bonus Headcannons
53. Acknowledgments
54. Agradecimentos
Also by M. K. Lewis
OceanofPDF.com

DISCLAIMER
This book touches sensitive topics such as the loss of a maternal figure, anxiety issues, and depiction of assault (a character stops this from going through). Even though this book is clean, it has curse words. If you don’t want to read about these, maybe you should sit this one out.
With lots of love, Mary.
OceanofPDF.com

The Never List
OceanofPDF.com

OFFICIAL PLAYLIST
OceanofPDF.com

1
My Allergy To Love
The power of love is a curious thing…
7 AM marks my alarm along with the song —
The Power of Love by Huey Lewis and the News
.
It’s the last day of school, and I’m waking up to the truth and the truth only. Would I call my relationship with love unhealthy? Yes, probably. But hey, there’s so much a girl can do when she’s raised on fairytales and also has an entire wall of romance books staring at her every morning since she was nine. Well, that and abandonment issues, but who doesn’t have them?
The other truth, an ugly truth, is that instead of being nostalgic about my junior year ending, I’m focusing my attention on gossip. Not useless gossip just
couples
. Sad, I know. Should I be worried that I use others’ love stories to be remotely close to anything like it in high school? Sure. But it’s entertaining, really.
I do try to take my mind off love, but it just comes back to haunt me. I wake up, and my eyes find my books. On my way to school, I pass runner couples laughing together after their
way-
too-early run, looking at elderly couples and imagining themselves in that place. I step into school. Doesn’t matter if they’re holding hands, kissing, or doing things which cause people to yell
Get a room!,
it follows me around like it has nothing better to do than to rub in my face daily that Cupid dropped my arrow and stepped on it, breaking it like a fragile little twig. But I must say, the most annoying part of it has to be watching
everyone
get someone except for me, the one who’s been dreaming about it since I could say the word love. The cherry on top is when my dad and his friends tell me with all the ease in the world
Don’t worry about it, honey, it will eventually happen…
or
The more you look for it, the more it will run from you…
I have closed my eyes, looked the other way, and looked at my nails long enough to know ignoring it is useless, which leads me to repeatedly bang my head against my locker every time I hear those cheesy — and much-needed — words from couples all around me, all around my day, all around my
life
. I’ve actually developed a defense mechanism of rolling my eyes in the most I’m-jealous-and-lonely way ever known to mankind.
I drag myself out of my room and into the kitchen, expecting to find my dad making breakfast as usual, but he’s not. Lindsey is not up yet, so I can’t ask her.
I search around the house until I find him in his office, the door nearly closed but still leaving an opening to see inside. I’m about to interrupt when I hear him talking to the air.
.
He holds a frame in his hands and talks to it.
“It’s the girl’s last day of school. Soon Maddie is gonna be looking at Colleges and-” I hold my breath as he finishes. “I just really wish you were here with us, Sky.”
Farewell to the good mood of rainbows and sunshine I woke up to,
good morning,
anger and anxiety…
I feel like crying, because not only is my dad not supposed to be wifeless, as Lindsey and I are not supposed to be motherless. Flashbacks of her leaving and me running after her car burst into my mind.
My eyes sting, and I compose myself quickly before my dad sees me, and just as Lindsey gets out of her room.
“Morning, Lindsey!” I move away from the office door, looking
very
guilty, but at least I didn’t cry.
“Why are you acting weird?” She rubs her eyes while walking to the bathroom.
I sigh and go to the kitchen island, bumping my head against it.
My dad appears and kisses the top of my head, looking as fresh as a vegetable, and I get even more pissed.
It’s always like this. I’m the psycho who had an anger attack a month after mom left, and my dad? Always
cool as a cucumber
. Lindsey looks at her pictures sometimes and asks Dad about her, and he
gladly
responds as if the woman wasn’t the snake that left us. I always throw a tantrum and refuse to listen because why would I? I’m not a masochist. But they… They always talk as if it’s nothing, and I’m left managing my emotions that are clearly out of control every time I think of her.
He turns to me just as he puts the bread in the toaster and frowns at my face.
“You okay, honey?”
“Yeah, just, last day of school.” I shrug it off, placing a plate in front of me waiting for the toast.
I’ve learned over the past few years that it’s better to lie than to see the devastating look on my dad’s face when I say I’m sad about her.
My dad has always been a happy person, even his friends say so. He was the kind of kid who got up as soon as he fell, not caring if his knee was bleeding, and the kind of teenager who brought people together and helped everyone out while simultaneously keeping a smile on everyone’s face.
The Golden Retriever people are the worst people to see sad. It’s just not right nor does it make sense. That’s also one of the reasons I was (read:
am
) so mad at my mom. How could she leave my dad? If I had to place my dad into a category it
definitely
would not be leavable.
He raises his eyebrows at me and gently smiles.
“But Maddie, you hate school.”
“That doesn’t mean I can’t miss
some
part of it.” I lie with a fake smile all while laughing it off.
He knows I’m lying, but he probably just thinks I’m bummed about leaving my friends and don’t want to admit my feelings, as usual.
I kiss him goodbye and shout it at Lindsey, leaving for school.
As soon as the front door shuts, my heart picks up an abnormal amount of speed, and I breathe it down, putting my headphones on.
I breathe deeply, and let my playlist named
HAPPY
— very creative, I know — fill my body. I would be helpless without music. I really clung on to it as soon as I realized that it was the only constant thing in my life. And yes, I do realise it’s a very intense coping mechanism, as did my therapist.
New Sensation by INXS
bursts through my eardrums and I let the sunshine shine on my face while walking towards the school. It takes about twenty minutes on foot, so it gives me plenty of time to let myself enjoy my playlists.
I snap every picture that I can with my eyes, just memorizing the streets of Jersey and its skyline, because soon enough, I’ll be getting away from all this to my safe space.
Mailview
.
Still in the state of New Jersey, just more
country
. As in a town in which everyone knows everyone, but still big enough to host some tourists and
a lot
of people of every age category. It’s big for an outsider but small for locals who know the son of the old lady whose car got fixed by the man who got divorced and had three kids, and one of them married the Pie Store owner’s daughter. It’s like a game really.
Connect the last name.
I reach hell’s steps five minutes after it rang. I could have been on time if I hadn’t had a lot on my mind.
I race down the hallways just to finally get to my English class. I knock, one earbud wired in my ear while the other is free to hear Mr. Green give me permission to enter.
“Sorry I’m late…” I mutter walking right to my seat.
I catch Allison grinning at me and shaking her head in the way that says
only you to be late on the last day of school
.
I turn off
Head Over Heels by Tears For Fears
and put my things onto the table of the only class I actually don’t mind listening to.
OceanofPDF.com

2
If You Hate P.E. Clap Your Hands
The bell rings, and Mr. Green finishes giving us the bookmarks he brought for all of us. We all leave class wishing him a good summer and thanking him for being responsible for everyone’s grades going up because of how patient and good a teacher he was.
Allison finds my arm and sticks to my side until we reach the lockers.
“Can you hear that? It’s the sound of heartbreak echoing through these hallways. You gotta love the drama.” She laughs past a couple hugging tightly, both teary-eyed.
I feel bad for them, unlike Allison. Even though I should be glad about the misery of others’ love lives, I can’t. It’s bad giving your heart to someone only to know it’s gonna end eventually. This is a part of my many reasons I’m afraid to date. Of all things in life, there are only two I can control. Music, books, movies, and
me
. But I also know that as soon as I fall for someone, that
control flies out the window faster than light. Not that I have
really
fallen for someone.
“Well, that and
lies
.” I add to her statement, and she nods in approval, just to stop and make a grossed-out face.
“Speaking of cheating scum liars.”
I follow her gaze, and I see Blade Topper. I cringe remembering that night when I thought it was going well for a date.
He sees Allison and me, frowns with a concerned expression at the stink eye and the discreet flip Allison is giving him.
“Alls please…” I insist, dragging her along. She rolls her eyes but stops intimidating him.
I groan, getting closer to the gym, and Allison gives me taps to comfort me.
“It’s only an hour.”
“The longest hour.”
If you can’t tell, the subject that goes by PE and I do not get along. I guess it all started when I realized I was so bad at
all
group sports that I was the last one to be picked for a team. It’s not like I mind it, I’m used to it by now. I mean, I can’t blame them. I start to gasp for air and have to sit down when we have classes on the third floor. Not to mention losing all races, all agility tests, and having the elasticity of a tree.
Allison lets out a sad sigh.
“I’m actually gonna miss PE.”
When she said she liked physical activities when we were younger, I asked her not to joke about that stuff. She wasn’t joking. She’s one of the top athletes in the school, managing to participate and win most of the basketball, soccer, and track and field competitions.
Ms. Fairwon — yes, she has heard every pun possible for her name, considering her profession — makes us run for
fifteen
minutes to warm up.
I try to whine and beg her and remind her it’s the last
day,
but she doesn’t really care. She’s one of those people who, if it were in her power, she would wake us all at 5 AM to run for an hour every day.
I start running slowly, saying goodbye to Allison, who stays in her own rhythm, and two minutes pass, and I already have a side ache. If you think that can excuse me
,
you’re very wrong. Ms. Fairwon says I’m just not breathing properly, which makes me run an extra wasted minute.
I’m sweating like a pig just as Allison passes by me, breathing perfectly, posture perfect, and overall appearance and performance,
perfect
.
I can’t even groan in frustration because I don’t have enough energy to do so. Nothing gets worse than running.
And those five words should have
never ever ever
crossed my mind because it
can
get worse.
“You know, you should get that wheeze checked out, you sound like an 80-year-old going up the stairs.” Jake West positions himself beside me, and even though my body could fail to work at any minute now, it still does that reflex of rolling my eyes every time I hear this voice.
I can barely run, let alone waste my words on him, so I just keep on going, head held up high and feet almost dragging the floor.
“Giving me the silent treatment? Well, wouldn’t be the first time…”
I concentrate just enough energy on my body to be able to say a full sentence, while he easily starts running backwards in front of me.
“Don’t you have some poor girl to leave commitment issues with, right now?” I manage, and I swear that right after I finish saying it, he bumps into Claire, who’s running in front of me, and she lets out a giggle while he smirks at her, saying
Sorry,
leaving my mouth slightly open in shock. Her face is all red when she turns back to run, and he shrugs at me.
“Well, it’s always precious talking to you, but I have commitments on the other side of the lane. Hang in there, Brown, I’m rooting for you.” He points a finger at me, and somehow just his presence makes me indignant.
“Thanks, West, your support is everything I ever needed.” I sarcastically utter, and he
laughs
.
As soon as Ms. Fairwon blows the whistle, I lie on the floor dramatically because if I’m gonna look disgusting and tired — which is an understatement — at least let me have my drama.
Allison approaches me and crouches by my side.
“We should do some exercise this summer, what do you think?”
I look dead serious in her eyes.
“I would never do that.
Why
would I do that voluntarily?”
She puffs and sits beside me.
“You don’t want to do anything, Mads. You would never meditate or do yoga, god knows why, you barely have to
move
… You would never go to a club, you would never go swimming at night, you would never do something that involves you moving for more than five seconds, like riding a bike… How are we supposed to do something fun if you’re gonna do the same thing every day?”
“Hey, I
do
move for more than five seconds. I go to the grocery store…” I joke, and she rolls her eyes. I know, I know, the joke
sucks
. I was never much of a comedian.
My summers are all the same, and I didn’t even consider that with Allison finally coming with me to Mailview, she wouldn’t like my routine. We’re two opposite people in every aspect. Where she’s blonde, I’m brunette. She has blue eyes, I have brown. She’s an adventurer, I’m a stay-at-home-‘till-I-die… Because I live life ruled by fear. I don’t do that stuff she does
because I’m so into my comfort zone, I would never dare to get out into the world.
Someone fake-coughs.
“Chicken!” Jake blurts, walking just behind us.
“I’m sorry, how are you a part of this conversation?” I whip my head around to glare daggers at him.
“Apology accepted. I’m just concerned about your well-being and your well-being only.” He mocks with a stupid grin on his face, sitting down beside us. Suddenly, like a miracle, my energy comes back.
“As much as I’d like to stay here and hear you two call me a coward in many different ways, I have to go to the bathroom.”
I fast pace to Ms. Fairwon, and she lets me go.
This summer is going to leave me exhausted.
OceanofPDF.com

3
Meet Your Poster Boys
I only have one class to finish, and it’s almost as bad as PE.
Biology.
Not the subject itself but the idiot who teaches it.
I go to my locker to clean it up since I want to get out of school as soon as the last class finishes. Allison stands beside me, very inside her head.
“You know, I was talking to Jake and-”
“No.”
She raises her eyebrow, and I take a break from getting the pictures of my family from my locker door.
“But I didn’t even finish.”
“I know, but no good comes from talking to Jake West.”
Surprisingly, she doesn’t push it, and I just continue to clean my locker. When I’m nearly done, I hear voices very close to me, on the other side of the locker. I keep the door open so Allison and I don’t have to interact with them.
“Will you text me?” A female voice is heard, and
great, another lovey-dovey couple, either about to break up or about to promise that they love each other forever and always.
I very secretly love it, though.
I’m pathetic, I know.
“I don’t know, I’m going to be busy…” A familiar voice excuses, making me snort loudly.
Too
loudly.
I curse myself and close my eyes, as if maybe they would forget I’m here.
The two of them stop, and I slowly take my head out of the locker and look sideways, from where the voices came.
“Do
you
have something to say?” The girl asks me.
“Nothing, I was about to leave.” I shrug, turning to my books.
“No, I
insist
.” She presses.
“It’s just- He doesn’t even know your name, let alone text you…” I respond honestly and sharply, causing Allison to snort.
“Hmm, why wouldn’t he know my name? Tell her.”
She turns to him with a certainty that is about to be wiped off her face. He looks trapped. Oh,
how I love that look…
“It’s Ra…” He starts, but she cuts in, mad.
“
Bella
. Asshole.” She tells him. “Thank you.” She turns to me before walking away, and I sigh.
“Poor unfortunate soul.” I let out, turning to my locker with a smile brewing on my face. What?
I just saved that girl from a huge summer heartbreak.
“Yeah, yeah, okay, Ursula. How did you even know I didn’t know her name?” West leans against the lockers, and I shut mine.
“Eh, I figured it was 50/50.”
“I’m impressed you didn’t even need to look to know it was me.” He smirks, and I let out a dry laugh.
“Your voice has this touch of obnoxious and self-entitled that, to my dismay, I can recognize anywhere. Oh, and those lame excuses are kind of your trademark.”
“A win is a win.” He pushes himself off the lockers and goes in the direction of our Biology class, but I still call him.
“How are you even breathing without your jock pack behind you?” I cross my arms and level him with a raised eyebrow.
“To the contrary of the belief of this school, I don’t need anyone’s help to breathe.” His eyes light up, and I suppress a sigh. “Well, maybe except for you. You could help me if you want.”
My cheeks burn up, and I take a step back, suddenly feeling very out of breath myself.
“Not even if you were the last man on Earth.”
“Another day, another wound. You know, someday you’ll regret your words, and I’ll be the first to rub it in your face.”
“Don’t expect it to be anytime soon.”
“Ah, but there is a possibility.
I knew it…
”
“Whatever helps you sleep at night, idiot. Besides, you didn’t answer my question… Where are they?”
He gives me a clueless look, and I close my eyes.
“The
Brady Bunch
, who do you think?”
“Why do you wanna know? Got a crush, Brown?” He suddenly turns more serious. Still a joker but with a serious undertone.
“It’s impossible to have a conversation with you, West.”
“Riden headed early to practice, Graham is probably behind the gym with some cheerleader, and Aaron- Well, he disappears sometimes, I don’t really know what he’s doing. Everything you needed?”
“Ah, so you
can
be serious for once.”
To be honest, I’m just annoying him because I know the last people he would want to see me with were his best friends. The
jock pack — or moron pack — as I usually call them. Not because they’re bad people, just because it fits the jock stereotype and West is in it. But overall, they’re actually pretty level-headed for teenage boys. Add that to the fact that they all look straight out of a 2000s teen drama, like One Tree Hill or Gilmore Girls, and you have boyfriend material right there.
You have Riden, the blonde, shy surfer boy, who usually keeps to himself and is the voice of reason in the group. He’s like Scott McCall, overall sweet, supposed to be the main character, but surprisingly underrated within his group and in the shadow of his best friend. Then Graham, the most preppy rich boy who’s walked this
public
school, but in spite of that, is the kindest and humblest, like a Disney prince, with straight white teeth, killer brown hair, and the perfect fit of a high school football player. He’s Nate Archibald, but physically, a Ken. Then Aaron. Dirty blonde, a scar on his brow, and an attitude and sarcasm to match it, along with his clothes looking like he stepped out of Step Up. Jess Mariano kind of guy. And lastly, but according to the female and somewhat male population of this school, no less important, Jacob West. In pop culture, he’d be the lovable flirty goofball, aka the side character who every girl would fall for, and apparently, that reached my school. On paper, he should be Stiles Stilinski, but in reality, he’s Logan Huntzberger. Somehow, he’s the most sought-after, and believe me, the other three are
very
popular.
Basically, they’re this stunning group of high school football players with their own individual charm and personality, who met in primary school and decided to keep each other.
“Brown, you know I love when we come for each other’s throats, and maybe I’d like that more realistically,” I glare intensely at his insinuation. “But unlike you, I understand the concept of being on time.
Ladies
…” He nods and walks away
before I can say anything, and Allison and I stare at his back, her with an annoying smirk and me with hatred in my eyes.
“You’re
sooo
gonna date.” She laughs beside me, and I roll my eyes.
“I would
never
date Jake West.” I hiss, and to my surprise, she says the same thing at the same time, imitating me.
“That must be the first
never
I have ever heard you say.” She shrugs and says goodbye.
I spend two more seconds looking at West’s long silhouette and say inside my head.
The first never is probably the most dangerous.
I shake my head and head into Biology. And spend the following class dying internally.
Mr. Lace is the kind of middle-aged teacher who thinks that giving a school subject on the last day is fine.
He’s also Voldemort in disguise.
“And
that
is finished.” He finishes
another
theme only to go to another. Or so he thought.
Two people who were talking in the back interrupt him with their conversation, and his eye starts twitching.
“Mr. West, credits will be taken right now if you continue your conversation.” The teacher annoyingly warns.
“Do I get credit if I pretend I care?” He responds from the back of the classroom.
The class bursts into laughter. A real comedian, this one. Great.
Encourage him
, that’s exactly what he needs.
I look behind and see a girl glued to him, looking at him all googly-eyed, their desks dangerously close. I then look at him, and he looks at
me
and winks.
An ironic smile takes control of my lips, and I flip him off.
“And Ms. Brown would also like her credits to be taken.” Mr. Lace says, with an evil grin on his face.
“Oh no.” I sarcastically say, without even a hint of emotion.
I’m sick of him. I never did anything to him, and he picked on me ever since day one. Somebody talked, Ms. Brown’s fault; somebody
died
, Ms. Brown’s fault.
Honestly
.
“I’m sorry, Ms. Brown, but you will have to talk louder.”
Oh,
now
he wants me to talk.
“I said, it appears that Mr. Lance needs to get his stick out of his ass.”
Is what I could have said, but I’m too scared to do so.
And fortunately for me, I didn’t even need to say anything to Mr. Lace because things went badly anyway. Why? I just had the unfortunate luck of West being born. He threw small paper balls at my hair for the rest of class, and when I finally did turn around and told him to stop, Mr. Lace…
OceanofPDF.com

4
So I Punched A Guy In The Face
Jake
It had been a pleasant day. The sun was shining, classes were ending for one glorious summer break, and I was in a good mood going into the last practice of my Junior year. Went to practice,
nailed it
, talked with my bestest of friends about them coming to my summer house, and they agreed.
Until that fuckface known as Blade Topper waltzed like a little bitch into the locker room.
Who is even called Blade? What a weirdass name.
Madelaine’s name comes up, and my ears immediately perk up at that. Riden grins at me, but I couldn’t care less. I’m trying to listen to this conversation.
“What about you? You went out with her, didn’t you?” Nick asks Blade, who grins that stupid, pathetic grin, and I breathe calmly.
“Yeah, but the girlfriend found out.” And then he laughs.
What a dumbass
. “Before I could even feel her up.”
I throw my clothes and immediately turn around, coming close to him.
“What?” I question, really, as if I’m asking to reconsider his words.
“Easy, bulldog, it’s the truth. It’s not as if your
girlfriend
would have let me, god knows she probably bites people who try to touch her.”
“How about you shut up before I do something I won’t regret?” I level him with a passive-aggressive smile, inviting him to test me.
“C’mon, man, everybody knows her mom left her, that prissy has so many issues it wouldn’t really work out, I was just expecting some reward, you know.”
“Oh no…” Graham mutters beside me, and I snap.
I lunge towards him, grab him by the collar, and throw his body against the wall.
“Say that again. I dare you, and you’ll never be able to play in that field again.” I slam him against the wall again, and his eyes flash concern. He puts his hands up in surrender, and just as he thinks he can relax, I punch him just for the message to, you know,
sink in.
“Don’t ever talk about shit you don’t know. And her.
Especially her.
”
Because
I know
. I was there when her cowardly mom left her, and she tried to chase her down the road. My mom had to help her with her first period, which isn’t bad, except she’s not her mother. It wasn’t supposed to be like that. She can’t even wear her natural hair or makeup because
I know
she can’t bear to look
like her mother at all. Because they’re exactly alike. She’s her younger twin, and I can see it pains her. I also kept an eye out for her on Mother’s Day, her longing glances at every other kid, at my mom and me, how she would disappear and run away so no one could notice her.
And they don’t. They don’t know anything; they don’t know the pain she’s in. She’s
always
in pain. She only crashes against me because it’s the only thing she can count on. Our banter. So I’ve been doing it since then, gladly. Because when she’s almost smiling, I feel like I’ve made my year. And maybe a little bit of hers.
I hope it makes hers
.
I don’t even have to warn off all the remaining guys, as I see several of them backing up with shocked expressions.
“What the hell just happened here? Why is Topper bleeding from his nose?” Coach comes in, and we all look at each other. No one would rat me out, but I don’t mind turning myself in. I’m actually proud of the angle at which I caught him.
“Just a disagreement. Won’t happen again.” I wink at Blade, and he scoffs, trying to murder me with his eyes.
Oh, I’m terrified.
Please…
“Was that your work, West?” I shrug at his question, a proud smile on my face, and he shakes his head. “Detention.”
The boys all groan for me, but I’m delighted. As soon as the coach leaves, I sigh a dreamy sigh. Grabbing my stuff and back to my everyday clothes from the training gear, I pass by.
“Don’t pity me, gentlemen, for
I
am going to heaven.” My friends shake their heads, knowing exactly why I’m this cheery. It’s not like I put Madelaine in detention too- Oh wait, yes I did.
OceanofPDF.com

5
Worse Than Detention
That bastard gave me detention. That’s just
awesome
.
The clock shows 4:30 PM, and I go to the classroom. Great, half an hour late. I sigh, not believing I’m spending my last day of Junior year in detention.
My dad won’t like it, although I’m pretty sure Allison already came up with an excuse for me not to be home.
I open the door, and Mr. Lace’s asleep at his desk. He opens his eyes with my entrance and scoffs at the attendance paper, but ends up falling asleep again because he can.
A curly black-haired boy is lazily sitting in the first row, balancing a pencil on the bridge of his nose.
A loud snore makes me come back to reality, and I just eye the boy.
I sit behind him and take one of my books out of my bag.
Ten minutes later, West walks in, grossly mutilating a girl’s lips. Now, don’t get confused. He is not sucking the face of the
one from this morning. He’s sucking the face of the one from class.
He stops and leaves her stranded, walking in to sit at the table beside the black-haired boy.
I focus on my book. But not for long. The boy in front of me turns around.
“Good book.” He lets me know, looking at me. I raise my eyes from the book and look at his green ones.
“You read it?” I ask wide-eyed.
“Twice. First time for school, second time because it surprised me.”
I get struck for a second and smile at him.
“I’m Fred.” He introduces himself.
“Madelaine.”
He smiles at me, looking right into my eyes.
“Oh man…” West lets out, breaking this embarrassing pink delusional bubble I was in.
“What?” Fred asks, his gaze going from me to West, whom I forgot was here.
“Don’t look right into her eyes!” West shakes his head, pretending disappointment. I glare at him. “She might steal your soul.” He says in a matter-of-fact tone.
“I swear to god West-” I get up and hit him with my book, harshly.
I sit back down, and Fred laughs. West glances at me and speaks
again
.
“Somebody’s moody.”
“Somebody needs to shut up.” I press, wrinkling my nose and almost speaking through my teeth, attempting to keep a smile on my face.
“And you wonder why you’re still single.” He shakes his head, amused, and my jaw drops open, and I blush, peering at Fred.
“Busy this summer?” He asks, and I chuckle nervously.
“I’m going out of the city for the whole summer.”
An alarm clock rings, and Mr. Lace wakes up.
He dismisses us, and I stuff my book in my bag.
Fred and I walk side by side with West trailing us. He’s right behind me, pretending not to listen to the conversation but totally listening to it just so he can make fun of me later.
“My girlfriend is waiting. It’s a shame you’re out, I was throwing a party next weekend.” And with that, he leaves, waving goodbye, and I wave goodbye back, a bit sad, a bit relieved. It’s sad that he has a girlfriend, but at the same time, let’s not pretend that I’d have the guts to do anything whatsoever.
West laughs beside me at my failed attempt at flirting, and I see my dad’s car from afar. I leave him and run to the car.
Please don’t see West, PLEASE do not see West.
“Dad!” I get in, out of breath. “Drive, please.” I ask him eagerly.
He turns to me,
not
driving.
“The school called me. Detention, Maddie?”
“It was Mr. Lace.” I explain carefully. And then the childish tone comes. The one that comes whenever I mention West. “And West was throwing papers at my hair!”
“You know what? I’m going to let this pass, but just because it’s the last day.” My dad warns, turning back to the wheel.
I think I’m off the hook when, suddenly, with all the
nerve
in his body, I see West coming in our car’s direction. We lock eyes, and I fiercely look at him as if saying,
I dare you to take another step in the direction of this car.
He smiles even wider, making room for his dimples to appear.
Jerk.
“Is that Jake? Maybe he needs a ride-”
“Do
not
finish that sentence- Dad no!
He was the reason I got detention.
” I try everything, but my dad, bless his angelic
soul, still rolls down his window with a wide smile on his face as West comes close.
“Hi, Mr. B just wanted to say sorry to Mads for getting her into detention.”
I roll my eyes so hard it feels like they’re hitting the back of my head.
Wants to apologize my ass. Suck up. He doesn’t even call me Mads. Ever.
My dad turns to me with a hopeful smile, as if to say
See, he’s being nice!
And I sigh.
I look up at West, and he grins,
winking
while my dad’s head is turned at me.
“I’m sorry, Mads, if there’s anything I can do to make it up…”
“No thanks, now we’re in a bit of a hurry, so if you’ll excuse us, West, we gotta go,
bye bye
.” I stretch to my dad’s door and start to shut the window, and my dad stops me.
“Maddie, stop.” I get back on my seat, and my dad proceeds to ask West if he wants a ride home.
Of course, he says yes. I believe what really sold it to him were my silent threats behind my dad’s back.
OceanofPDF.com

6
Roadtrip to Yee-Haw
It takes one hour and fifteen minutes from Jersey to Mailview. Which means, an hour and fifteen minutes of someone’s playlist playing through the speakers of the car.
The designated playlist for the car ride is of the choosing by the turn holder. So, basically, my dad, sister, and I take turns controlling the music every time we go to Mailview. Which is twice a month, not counting the summer.
This time, Allison’s coming with us, so it was supposed to be my sister’s turn, but we all agreed to give it to Allison, because she was our guest. And then she gave her turn to me, because she doesn’t really care, and I care too much.
Which brings us to
now.
Just Like Heaven by The Cure
is playing through the car, while we’re leaving the city and quite literally riding off to the sunset.
“Mads, can you at least put on some country music? We’re on a road trip to yee-haw after all.”
I turn my head to look at her, pursing my lips.
“Alls we’re going to Mailview, New Jersey, not Nashville, Tennessee.”
“It’s a small town with farms and animals included, that’s enough for a city girl like me to call it yee-haw. Now, let Carrie Underwood carry us through the country roads.” She theatrically says, and I end up giving up, only because she gave me control over music.
I queue
Before He Cheats by Carrie Underwood,
and Allison nods, happy. Sure enough, when the song starts, she screams it at the top of her lungs, my sister too, but not knowing the lyrics and just playing it off beneath Allison’s oh so out of tune vocals. My dad laughs, and I lay my head on my arm that’s stretched along the car door.
“Allison, you okay back there?”
“Yeah, Mr. B.” She interrupts vaguely, just to come back once again to screaming.
“Did something happen?” He asks, and I pretend to be annoyed. I feel sorry for my dad, though; the only interesting stories about boys he gets to hear are hers. The only interesting stories
about anything,
really.
“You know, same old same old. Teenage boys have their priorities, and it goes like video games, the boys, their mom, possibly their dog, the girlfriend, and then occasionally, the girl they are cheating on their girlfriend with.”
“I didn’t know you had a boy-”
I tap his arm and make a gesture to cut it off, and he gets the hint.
“No, it’s okay, I have my priorities too. Like me, my family, my friends, the club, sports, eating food off the trash, and
then
stupid skater boys who
needed a little time to breathe.
” My dad
and I try to intervene, but she has more to add. “I didn’t know you could breathe when you’re eating Marcy Corten’s face on the school’s front steps.”
“
Okay
, please keep in mind we have a twelve-year-old in the car.” I remind my enraged best friend. I get it, and to be honest, she was
way
worse four months ago, freshly dumped and humiliated. Post breakup — if you call it that, considering she doesn’t really have relationships, more like
flings
— Allison was unhinged, and
no one
wants to go back to that time.
“You know, Mr. B, I would feel better if you let Mads come with me for a night out…”
I flinch.
There
goes my lie… I shrink in my seat and cover my face.
“I didn’t even know Maddie wanted to go out! Honey, you could’ve told me, you know I would let you!” He enthusiastically —
too
enthusiastically — lets me know.
My dad would pay me to go out. We never talked about it, but he thinks I never go out because I don’t like to leave my comfort zone, which somehow is connected to my mom leaving…?
“Tonight we need time to settle in, but tomorrow is fine, and maybe the day after if you really like it.”
I have to say yes. For my dad. He’s going to enjoy this
way
more than I, but I’d do anything to make him happy, even if it means breaking my never list.
Oh yeah,
I did such a thing.
I was nine, revolted and angry, and mainly scared, so I started putting together stuff I would never do. No one was ever gonna see it, or at least I tried for it not to be seen.
“Okay, I’ll go,
but
you have to promise to do one of the things I actually wanna do off my summer bucket list.”
“You’re not making me read, are you?
Please.
”
“You underestimate books. They are the gate to an alternative reality opposed…”
“To this crappy world, we know.” She madly exhales from the back seat, but I just smile happily.
I think I can stand one night of crappy music if the reward is watching Allison reading a book of my choosing.
This could be fun.
OceanofPDF.com

7
Rock-Paper-Scissors-West
“C’mon!” Allison grunts just as I lose to my sister in rock-paper-scissors.
It’s Saturday, which means Allison and I lost and have to go get the laundry from the clothesline. It’s sad that a seventeen-year-old can’t beat a twelve-year-old, but that’s reality.
The sun has set a while ago, and stars are starting to appear. We should probably hurry up.
As I step outside, I feel the summer breeze and walk around the garden, while listening to Allison complaining.
“I’m almost 99.99% sure that your sister cheated.”
“How do you cheat at rock-paper-scissors?” I laugh, looking around the garden just as she continues the ranting.
I always felt lucky having a big house in the country, but I only come here in summer and on holidays. The garden has a
pool, a garage, and in the back, an orchard. It has many other things… Like a
clothesline..
.
When we get to the clothesline, I place my speaker on a tiny stone table nearby, and before I can even suggest a song, Allison turns to me with what looks like an overly enthusiastic and dangerous face.
“You know what we haven’t done in a really,
really
long time?”
Honestly, I have no idea what she’s talking about, but I think in the depths of my despair and my heart, unfortunately, I know where she’s going with this.
“The Shake It Off!” She clarifies, and I sigh, cringing at the memory of us forcing our parents to sit and watch a dance we had been rehearsing for a week, including in the middle of school.
“We’re not doing The Shake It Off.”
I start taking the clothes off the clothesline, and as if she didn’t hear a word I say,
Shake It Off by Taylor Swift
starts booming through the garden.
I continue what we were originally supposed to be doing, and Allison dances coordenated beside me, but when the bridge comes on, I can’t help but ditch the chore at hand and join Allison, mimicking Taylor’s voice while muscle memory does the rest.
Our dancing comes to a stop, for dramatic effect, and we look at each other and pretend to hit the high note, immediately followed by the rest of the dance.
Suddenly, I hear several claps, making us follow the sound.
We face the balcony of the house next to mine.
“Didn’t know you could move for more than five seconds without passing out, Brown. Good for you!” A voice says. It’s dark, and I can’t see anything but the clothesline, but unfortunately, I know exactly who just saw us.
“Wow, haven’t seen that dance since 5th-grade recess.” Another joins.
“Thank you, thank you, I know, the world will never know how brilliant we are.” Allison bows, but I stand frozen, heat rising to my cheeks in complete utter embarrassment.
You know, in school, back in the city, a lot of rumors would come around and appear. Either
Did you know she hooked up with…
or
She cheated on her boyfriend with
… Even though the rumors were endless, as it is expected to happen in a high school, there was one thing, better,
one person
they all had in common.
Jake West. The very same from the detention. As if going to the same school wasn’t enough, he also happens to be my neighbor. I feel like I need to explain this better.
Our parents have been best friends forever, so they do everything together, and their kids do everything together. Same school, same dinner every other Friday night, houses next to each other — how they first met in the 80s.
His house is one of the three big houses around here, if we exclude Amanda’s mansion. There’s mine, his, and one across mine that’s half house, half castle.
I always dreamt of living in a castle, and that one specifically blocks the view of the perfect sunset with its big tower, which means that it
has
to have a fantastic view. So, no, I wouldn’t mind living in there, either.
I’m trailing off. The point is that a light is turned on, and I can see a smirk on his face.
“What are you even doing here so soon? You’re not supposed to be here until Monday.” I was planning on stopping there, but it’s bigger than me. “I wasn’t aware prick season started earlier this year.”
I know I’m being an ass and an idiot, but with West, I have to keep myself at, not even arm’s length, but
moon to Saturn length
. I have to push him away so he doesn’t even try to
come close to my perfectly curated stone-cold wall protecting my mushy and fragile heart. Because as much as I’d like to deny it, if Jake West wanted and I mean
really
wanted to win me over, he a 100% would. I mean, the guy could charm Professor Snape if it came down to it, so who am I to resist all his attractiveness? I’m not blind, but as long as looks are all he has, we’re good. As soon as we come near deep conversation territory… Goodbye self-respect,
hello pathetic Madelaine
.
Whatever, let’s just also add that it’s also payback for a countless number of stupid and childish pranks I can’t even begin to explain.
“Oh yeah, it started right when you got here.” He flashes me his most ironic, self-satisfied, stupid smile, and I scrunch my nose at him, trying to stop myself from flashing him my finger for the second time in the span of 48 hours.
“Urgh, just get a room already.” Allison complains beside me.
“It’s too early for your aggressive flirting, Mr. and Mrs. Smith.” Riden pats his best friend’s shoulder.
After the silence settles, the boys just continue on the balcony, not removing themselves and letting us do what we need to do.
“Humm, do you mind?”
“Not at all, just waiting for the next song. If you show me your dance moves, I can show you mine.” He smirks, and I roll my eyes, returning to the laundry at hand.
Allison turns to me with a sly smile and then turns to the boys.
“Come help us.” She instructs, and they shrug.
As soon as they’re out of sight, I smack her arm.
“Ow!” She rubs the spot, and I glare at her. “This is for your own good, Madelaine, you
will
thank me later.”
After a minute, the small wooden ancient door that connects my garden to his opens, and the boys greet us with smiles.
I should smile. Be nice.
No, no. That’s flying too close to the sun.
I focus, folding a sheet in what I’m sure is the wrong way. I huff and, like a sniffing hound dog, West senses my despair and teleports to my side.
“Need help with that?”
I almost say yes, but something about his crossed arms and raised eyebrow in amusement makes me be stupid and stubborn.
“Nope, I’m good.”
“I see. You know, as much as I’d like to see you curse at that sheet with the same passion you curse at me, I can’t just stand here and watch you willingly torture it like that.” He covers his mouth, his face nearly breaking.
I know he’s trying to hold back his laughter because, honestly, who wouldn’t? I’m not sure I’ve seen a sheet so badly mistreated by a human folding it.
“I’m fine. And there is absolutely nothing in this world that I would curse at harder than you.”
It seems I just struggle even more. Okay, this is personal now.
I’m coming for you, sheet.
“Let me just-” He tries to help me, grabbing the end of the sheet, and I eye him, but nonetheless don’t push him away.
“This one gives you hell. You have to grab that end.” He starts giving me directions as if I’m helping, but it’s all his work. I stand there, slightly thrown off by West
helping
me and knowing how to fold this sheet sent from hell.
How is that hot?
How can it be hot?
As soon as he stops, I take it from his hands, not liking my reaction to him.
“Thanks.” His eyes widen, as he has never heard anything kind coming from my mouth directed at him. But of course, I have to be an asshole. “Who knew you could do a basic task?”
He smirks and nods as if saying
And there it is…
and my stomach hurts ever so slightly. It’s not like I want to be like this. I don’t know when I became so-
Sour
all the time, but I don’t know how to exist without being it…
I want to ask him,
Why did you help me? Why did you help the girl who hasn’t said a kind word to you since she can remember?
But of course, those thoughts are buried way deep, and I wouldn’t want to allow them to become reality because I’m a coward. Just like everything in my life is controlled by fear, so is something as basic as speaking.
West passes by me and answers with as much content as one should, not caring about my hostility.
“Who knew you couldn’t?”
There. That’s better. That’s what always happens. I’m rude, and he’s rude back. I don’t feel guilty, and he… Well, I don’t know what he gains, but I guess it annoys me…?
The speaker starts booming a somewhat familiar song, and I turn around to find Allison and Riden holding their phones as microphones.
They start singing
Can You Feel The Love Tonight? from the Lion King soundtrack.
“Seriously, Alls?”
“They might have a point, you know…” West says from behind me, but too close, and I freeze.
“Shut up.”
He chuckles as Allison continues, an arm now around Riden’s shoulders while a hand points at West and me.
I cross my arms, but I can’t help smiling a bit.
And
there’s the mocking, sarcastic French accent. I purse my lips, determined not to budge.
They start shouting.
“Okay, knock it off, you animals.” I throw a pillow case at their impression of Timon and Pumba, and they stop, laughing.
I glance at West, and he looks the other way, pretending he wasn’t looking at me. I place every sheet in the baskets and, without saying too much, bid goodbye to the boys, leaving Allison with them for a little while longer.
I come through the kitchen door and trip over the entrance mat.
“Woah, Maddie, what’s wrong?”
I look at my dad with a numb face and shake my head.
“Nothing, I’m just- Low social battery.” I tell him, and he takes the basket from my hands. Then he places his arms around me and carefully hugs me. Then he kisses the top of my head.
“I know, believe me. Being adopted by extroverts is exhausting.” He squeezes me, feeling my tiredness.
“Have you taken your pills?”
I shake my head and move to said pills.
I take them and say to my dad, I’m going to bed.
I have suffered from insomnia ever since my mom left, and finally, I was taken to a psychiatrist to get it fixed.
My social battery just… goes down sometimes. I love Allison, and I don’t entirely hate our interactions, but sometimes it’s too much, and it drains me. I know it’s also related to severe anxiety, something my therapist and my psychiatrist love to conspire about, I bet.
I pull the sheet over me, and my head crashes onto the pillow. My body’s tired, but my mind is still very much alive.
As I lie on my bed, I try to think positive thoughts about tomorrow.
Tomorrow, after lunch, my job at Miss Patty’s Library starts, and nothing could be more wonderful. I mean, it’s only once or twice a week, but it’s
something
.
When I was a kid, I didn’t like to read. But one day, when I was in the main square, Miss Patty herself came to me with the first book I’ve ever read. Harry Potter and The Philosopher’s
Stone. After that, I read the whole series, but it was the only fantasy book I’ve read because after that, I discovered the art of romance books and only read romance-related books. I mean, I did read fantasy and sci-fi, but
only
if it had romance in it.
Yeah… I have issues.
OceanofPDF.com

8
The Grandson Effect
Even after the sleeping pill, I found myself still tossing and turning around in my sheets, but eventually fell asleep. Woke up better, though.
Just
in time for lunch, during which my dad kept stealing glances in my direction to make sure I was doing better. I do love my dad with all my heart.
But I’m hyped up. It’s Patty’s library, my favorite spot in town!
I finish my breakfast enthusiastically, which raises my dad’s and sister’s eyebrows. I go brush my teeth and make my way to the village’s library.
As I enter, I smell that familiar scent of old books. I immediately spot Miss Patty at the reception desk located to my right. She’s a small and thin lady, but a very sweet one. With that head
full
of grey hair and glasses too big for her face, she has the kindest smile. She is wearing a pink flowy skirt that reaches
a little far down her knees and a white shirt with a badge saying
Patty W
. She may be old, but her spirit is
young
. She dresses like we’re in the 50s, and her head full of hair is always in a hairstyle that comes out of a fashion magazine from that time.
“Hi, Miss Patty!” I’m smiling so much that I wonder how my cheeks are not hurting.
“Oh, hi Maddie! Look at you, all ready to work, and looking good too!” I blush at that comment. “Well, you can start by organizing that pile of books and putting them on the respective shelves.”
I make my way to the books and start organizing them. Not many people come to the library, but I never get bored because Miss Patty always has a new book for me to read.
After my task is done, I go to her asking with curiosity and an innocent smile, “Do you have any new books?”
“
Always looking for books
. Maddie, as much as I love books as you do, you
have
to spend some time outside, enjoying the air and hanging out with people of your age, and not with an incredibly beautiful and
older
lady.” She says, tossing her hair absentmindedly over her shoulders.
“Hey, I go outside!” I say defensively and with a curve appearing on my lips. “I’m more focused on the book than on the fresh air, but I
do
go outside. And I don’t mind spending time with you at all.” Now I’m fully smiling.
There actually are a lot of people my age in this village, which is more than enough for me to make friends. I just never bothered. As a kid, I was shy, and since I discovered books, I became even more antisocial. The only friend I really had was Allison.
“As a wise man once said,
It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live
. He was kind of evil, but he
was
a genius.” Miss Patty quotes to me. We have almost the same opinions on books, like thinking Albus Dumbledore was pretty messed
up, but a
genius
. We could talk about a single book for hours. She would always read the new books for teenagers with me, so we could discuss them later. She’s a very literate person. She can read those boring books about political impacts and non-fiction about wars just as much as she can read my soft and cute romance books where they hold hands and ride off into the sunset.
“I guess you’re right.”
“I’m always right.” She responds, winking at me. “But since you asked, I do have a pile of books over there that came yesterday and have your face on it.”
I walk to the pile and see which books I haven’t read. From that pile, I already read The Selection, To All The Boys I’ve Loved Before, The Fault In Our Stars, The Summer I Turned Pretty, and… Wait! I haven’t read this one. On The Fence. Interesting title. I decide I will take it as soon as I finish the one I’m reading right now.
“My grandson loves reading too. God, that makes me sound old.”
I always knew Miss Patty had a grandson; she never stopped talking about him, but I’ve never met him, against all odds.
“Not many boys read nowadays.”
“Oh, he is a very sweet and interesting person.”
“I know, you’ve mentioned it before.” I smile and send her a pointed look.
“What can I say? I am a very proud grandma. But I bet you didn’t know that he plays the electric guitar!”
I love the electric guitar…
“I didn’t, actually.”
“I can’t think of another person who’s so obsessed with music like he is.”
“You’re hurting my feelings, dear ol’Miss Patty.” I fake a southern accent.
“Call me old one more time, and I will hurt more than your feelings.” She warns, dimples showing. “And I’m sorry, Maddie, I forgot. He also loves rock…”
“If I didn’t know any better, I’d say you’re pitching me your grandson.” I narrow my eyes at her.
“You two would get along
great, and maybe,
who knows,
more
than great.” She smirks. And I start blushing.
Why do I have to blush a lot? Since I was a kid, when a cute boy came to me or when people started to make insinuations, I would blush
a lot
. Maybe that’s why it’s easier being mean to West. Because it doesn’t give me time to blush.
“He is in town, so what do you think of him stopping by tomorrow?” Asks Miss Patty, breaking me from my thoughts.
“
Fine
.”
I pretend my heart’s not going wild right now at the idea of someone like that.
OceanofPDF.com

9
First Rule of The Never List is…
After I shower, Allison showers. And when we both get to the room, she starts to look through my stuff. Wait, look is very tame. She starts to aggressively throw my clothes around like a tornado.
“Why are you going through my stuff?”
“Because
you
and I have to look good…” She says vaguely, and I cross my arms.
“And that wouldn’t have anything to do with West and Riden coming over, would it?”
She scoffs, an intense scoff, and indignantly looks at me.
“I am offended by your accusation. We dress for ourselves and for ourselves
only
.” Pause. “Boys are a
bonus
…” She tries to hold in her nasty grin, and I shake my head.
“I knew it…” At this point in her throwing fit, I just stare, waiting for clothes.
After a good ten minutes, she decides, and I quote
For god’s sake, Mads, you don’t have anything good to wear!
Ouch. So she decided for me to wear some of her clothes. I’m wearing a white loose shirt and some bootcut jeans. She’s wearing a crop top with shorts. She then tosses me black boots with a hill.
“I’m
not
wearing these.”
“Oh, come on! Not everyone could pull them off besides me! And you!” She adds quickly.
Three outfit changes later and an almost fight over wearing a t-shirt or a top, we go downstairs, and boy, did we have nice timing.
Everyone
is already talking in the dining room,
near
the end of the stairs.
Allison sure knows how to make a good entrance.
Everyone stops and stares. Then, the adults continue their conversation, but it seems that the young fellows have a nice time staring. I smirk.
“Keep that pretty mouth of yours open any longer, and you’ll catch flies, West.”
He gets out of La La Land and looks me up and down.
“Lookin’ good, Brown.” He says, trying to rescue him from any more embarrassment. I blush.
Oh my god, stop it
. “Who knew that if you tried, you could actually look decent…”
I scrunch my nose in disdain, and he winks, causing my cheeks to turn a darker shade of red, if it’s even possible.
“So cute, aren’t they?” Riden asks my best friend, amused.
“The cutest.” She mocks even more.
Those idiots never waste an opportunity to talk to each other and goof around.
Riden
seems to be mesmerized by her every single time, ever since he first met her. With her wavy blonde hair and eyes that seem to have the ocean in them, everything about her is perfect. She is shorter than I am, but she isn’t exactly a short person. She can attract any boy she wants.
Sometimes by accident, and sometimes not so much by accident. I always thought Riden and her would look good together.
“Why are you wearing heels?” Jake asks me. “Oh, how foolish of me. You obviously wanted to impress
me
.”
“Not even in your wildest dreams, West.” I sigh.
I can see that he’s about to retort, but my dad cuts in and informs, “Let’s eat.”
The table is set specifically so the adults would be on one end and we on the other.
I’m sitting between Alls and Lindsey, with Jake in front of me, Riden in front of Allison, and Alana in front of Lindsey.
The food is already sitting in front of us. Chops and rice. One of my favorite meals. I know it may appear simple, but it’s mouth-watering. When I’m served, I start to eat. The others are starting to eat when I get some more food.
“Mads!” Alisson whispers-yells.
“Wot?” I whisper back with my mouth full.
“
Stop eating like a savage
.”
I stare at her, frowning.
She eyes the boys and Alana, and I roll my eyes.
Riden and Jake are both staring, the first almost with his mouth wide open, surely not expecting this behavior from any human being — even though he practically lives in Jake’s house, he hasn’t seen me eating a lot — and the second sporting a pig smile — this one sees me
every time.
I swallow the enormous amount of food in my mouth and say to the boys, rolling my eyes, “Take a picture, it’ll last longer.”
They seemed surprised that I made a sarcastic comment instead of showing embarrassment.
Jake smirks.
“How charming, continuing to eat like an animal.” He says. “You’d expect she would have learned to fix it in over ten years.” He sighs, knowing how mad he’s driving me right now.
“I can be very charming, and you would know it if you really knew me, but you never bothered.”
We go a long way. From him using me as his prank guinea pig to always taunting me until exhaustion. But what I said is true, from all the dinners and times we’ve been together, we never really got interested in really knowing each other.
“I always tried!” He may be smirking, but his mouth is not showing what his eyes are. There’s a glint of hope and truth in his eyes.
Those… Hazel eyes.
“I believe the sentence is
Take a picture, it’ll last longer…
” Allison quotes me.
“Staring are we? I mean, I know you dream about me daily.”
“Don’t flatter yourself. I zoned out, and by chance, my gaze landed on you. And also, I only dream of you when you decide to come haunt my nightmares.”
“Ah, I see.”
I place another piece of meat and then add a bit of rice to my fork and put it in my mouth. Then, after chewing for a bit, turn to him.
“So why did you come early this summer?”
“My grandma was always complaining that we didn’t visit her enough, so I thought we could come earlier to spend more time with her. "
I smile. That’s actually really sweet.
“Has the world gone wild? Did I just see Madelaine Brown smiling? A genuine smile?” Jake mocks. “Caused by
me?
Oh, will
definitely
take a picture…”
“No, you won’t!”
I try to take it off his hands, and he dangles it in my face but out of reach, ready to snatch a photo.
“Jacob, no phones at the dinner table!” Emily raises her voice above our mess, and I smile triumphantly at him.
“Yeah, Jacob,
no phones at the dinner table
…” I whisper in front of his face now that the parents are distracted and talking again.
“Viper.”
“Pig.”
“Try-hard.”
“Walking red flag.”
“And you’re not catching any flags, are you?”
That was offensive.
“Menace to society is what
you
are and also-”
“OKAY, enough with the aggressive flirting because we have something important at hand.” Allison looks my way with a wicked grin, and I look at her with a worried expression. She says things like this at least once a day, and it’s
never
important
or a good idea. “This summer, we have the never list to get over with.”
She outs me to the world, and my mouth drops open.
“Allison, don’t you dare speak about-”
“Our dear Maddie needs to get a life,
so
she showed me a list of things she would never ever do, and folks, we’re here to
do
them.”
I look down at my plate and completely ignore what happened.
Okay, I can’t ignore it.
“What’s the first rule about the never list?”
She stares at me blankly, and West points a finger at me.
“Never talk about the never list?” He references Fight Club, and my eyebrows raise.
“Surprisingly, yes, but it’s a never list for a
reason.
” Pause. “As in, I don’t want to do it,
ever
.”
“Blaspheme!”
I’m slightly surprised she knows how to use that word correctly.
“Boys, back me up.” She crosses her arms, and West and Riden are left slightly speechless. Still, of course, West manages to quip.
“And what is in that never list, if I may?”
“You may
not
.” I retort quickly, and his smile grows even bigger.
“Now I really wanna know.”
I roll my eyes, and Allison straightens up.
“If you’re not saying it, I will.”
And before I can stop her, she discreetly pulls up her phone and a
picture
of my list.
“When did you take that?!”
“Yoga, meditate, do anything before noon, babysit, sing in front of
anyone
, ask for a guy’s number…”
“Oh,
wait
.” Jake pulls out his phone, and I already know whatever it is he’s going to do is at my expense. “Here. The most valuable number you could ever get.” He smirks, joking and playing with me, and I lean back against my chair.
“Yeah, not really what I meant when I wrote that, besides the fact that I’m not entirely sure you’re even human, let alone a
guy
.”
“Oh, because of my superhuman good looks and god-like features?”
“No, because I’m convinced you’re half demon and half hellhound.”
“She’s
feisty
today.” He narrows his eyes at me. “As opposed to you, who’s half glitter, half cupcakes?”
Before I can respond, my phone starts ringing. Oh, I forgot to turn off my alarm for my sleeping pills. It’s late, and this alarm is from school days.
Your Love by The Outfield
— my dad set my alarm, not me — starts to play, and my phone is currently on full volume. I grab it and try to turn off the alarm, but my finger keeps missing the button. Finally, I managed to turn it
off. It seems that my alarm made my dad look at the time and say, “Excellent taste, Maddie,” Such a dad joke…“Well, do you all wanna go to the cafe?”
We all nod and go outside, since we’re already finished. As we step outside, Jake says, “The Outfield?”
“How do you know that?”
“Opposed to what you might think, I’m cultured. It was one of my favorite songs as a kid. My parents forced me to listen to it until I liked it.”
“So, you like old rock?” I ask, kind of scared.
“You could say that it’s nostalgic.”
What a coincidence.
I don’t like this.
“Maddie thinks that way, too.” Allison cuts in.
“Really?”
“Why the tone of surprise?” I raise my eyebrows.
“I always saw you as the hopeless romantic who liked cheesy songs, and I guess I never saw you as the girl who likes the
sometimes
heavy sound of rock.”
It’s sad that we grew up together but never really knew each other that well.
“I
love
the sound of the electric guitar.”
Riden and Allison start giggling.
“What’s the matter with you two?”
“Wanna ask
Jacob
here, what instrument he plays?” Alls asks me.
I look at him.
“No way!
You
play the guitar?!”
“Yes, acoustic and electric. Impressive, isn’t it?”
“Well, I don’t know about impressive. I never heard you playing.” I can’t help but respond, not liking one bit how we’re coming closer together.
“You’re welcome in my bedroom any day.” He says, winking, and I blush. Again.
Damn it.
He lowers his voice and whispers to my ear, “You always look cute when you blush.”
What the fuck?
* * *
I throw myself onto the bed, and Allison speaks up.
“This night was interesting!” She levels me with a knowing look.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“Oh, come on! He
likes
you!”
“Stop saying that! He does not! Plus, he’s going to get back with Amanda in one week, max.”
“Oh yeah? What was it that he whispered to you outside?”
“He said that I always looked cute when I blushed.” I say with indifference.
“ARE YOU KIDDING?”
“Shh! Everyone is probably sleeping!”
“Don’t hush me! That boy is
fine
and likes you.”
“He’s not
that
attractive.” I lie. Only a blind person would think that way.
“Of
course
not!” That’s a lot of sarcasm. “So all the times you were staring were because he had something on his face?”
“Oh, shut up.” I say, frowning. She laughs.
“You know I’m right, and you like him too.”
“DO NOT!”
“DO SO!”
“DO NOT.”
“DO SO.”
“Don’t…”
“Do…” She smirks.
“Besides, tomorrow I’m gonna meet Miss Patty’s grandson, and I’m sure that he is
way
better than West.”
“As if.”
“Hey, don’t do that. The boy plays guitar and reads. Can’t get more attractive than that.” I bite my lip.
“Jake plays the guitar.” Allison rolls her blue eyes and scoffs.
“
But
, he doesn’t read.” She puts her hands up in surrender. “Anyways, you and Riden…” This time,
I
send her a knowing look, wiggling my eyebrows.
“Oh yes. We’re already planning your and Jake’s wedding.”
“
Tell me that’s not true
.”
“What do you think we were talking about the whole dinner and outside when you were too busy scowling at him? And besides, Riden never liked Amanda.” She arches an eyebrow. I sigh.
“Good night, Allison.”
“Good night, Madiekins.”
OceanofPDF.com

10
LIES, DECEIVING INFORMATION AND BETRAYAL
“Allison!” I smack my pillow on her face.
“What the
fuck
-”
“Wake up!”
“Okay, okay, I’m up!”
“Good. I don’t have anything to wear.”
“I never thought this day would come! Madelaine Brown is asking for clothing advice for a date!” I stand a foot away from her, kind of scared she’ll self-combust.
“It’s not a date, and would you stop yelling and help me out?”
“Of course! I’m gonna get you dolled up!”
“No dolling up.”
“Fine.”
We
finally decided, with a bit of resistance from her side, that I would wear a white t-shirt and black high-waisted shorts. Then
I put on my black Converse, and she put my hair into a messy ponytail, which, holy hell, looks beautiful.
“Time for makeup!”
“No.”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
“Because.”
She makes me sit on a chair, and then she starts to put makeup on.
“Allison Bridge, I trust you enough not to make me look like a clown.”
She glares. “I’m not turning you into a clown.” A bit over here and a touch over there… “I’m almost finished! Stay still… Done!”
I look in the mirror, and she really did a good job. She made the makeup bring out my amber eyes and my face’s bone structure, but not too much.
“Wow.” That’s all I can say.
I look naturally stunning.
“I know! Ready to go?”
“Yes, but I have to eat breakfast.”
“Why don’t you forget breakfast and eat it
after
you meet Prince Charming?”
“Don’t ever suggest that again.” I feign seriousness. “But seriously, I need to eat.”
“Fine, but if you spill anything on your clothes, I
will
kill you.”
I chuckle.
We go downstairs and make our way to the kitchen. My dad, sitting at the breakfast table, looks at me with surprise.
“What? What’s wrong? Is something already out of pl-”
“No, no, no, honey. You look beautiful.” He stares at me, eyes getting foggy, and I don’t like where his mind is going. Because I know it has something to do with
her
.
“Thanks, Dad…”
“What’s the occasion?”
“Um…”
“She’s going to meet a nerd.” Allison responds.
“I’m going to meet Miss Patty’s
grandson,
and I wanted to look
presentable
, that’s it.”
“Hm
hmm
.” My dad sends me a knowing look, hiding a suspicious smile beneath.
“I’m serious!”
“Okay, honey, in a few years we will talk.”
And with that, I grab a piece of bread and a glass of milk and eat fast.
“I sure hope that on her first date she won’t have to eat…” I hear Allison whisper.
“What was that?” I say, my mouth full.
“You can’t keep eating like this!”
“Why not?”
“Because you don’t look human.” She reasons.
“That’s fair.” I smile.
“You done?”
“Yeah.”
My dad shakes his head in amusement while he looks at both of us. I sprint upstairs, brush my teeth, and surprisingly, everything is still in place. I rush downstairs and meet Allison outside the house.
“Okay, off to the Geeks.” She mutters.
“Allison!”
“What?” She asks innocently, flashing her eyes at me.
As we’re walking there, I remember the look haunting my dad.
“Next time, no makeup, Alls. I mean it.” I try to reason, and she notices how serious I am.
“But you look-”
“Like her.” I only add, and I see her face drop in regret.
It’s not her fault I’m my mom’s exact copy, even more so when I’m wearing makeup.
We make our way to the library, and when I open the door, I see Miss Patty at the desk.
“Good morning, Miss Patty.”
Before she can answer, a tall figure turns around and…
“
West?
”
“
Brown?
”
“What are you doing here?” We ask at the same time. Meanwhile, Allison met Riden and both of them started laughing.
“What?” Jake and I ask, annoyed.
“The look on your faces!”
“You knew about this?” Jake asks Riden.
“Well, no, but this is hilarious.” He laughs some more. “Seeing that the girl of your dreams is also the only girl in the world who can’t stand you.”
“Girl of your dreams,
huh
?” I smirk.
“Uh…” He’s speechless. And for the first time since I got here, he looks at me and looks amazed. My smirk only grows larger.
“Take a picture, it’ll last longer.” I tease. He gets back to reality, and he’s about to respond when Allison says, “I wouldn’t be so cocky if I were you, Madelaine. Weren’t you the one who said
The boy plays guitar and reads! Who can be more attractive?
” She quotes with the same dreamy expression I had when I said this, and I shove her to the side.
“Attractive?” This time, he smirks. Miss Patty, who has been quiet, seeing the scene, finally says something.
“It looks like you two already know each other.”
“Well, yeah, unfortunately for way too long.” I say, side-eyeing West.
“Good. It will be a lot easier when Jake starts to work here, since you already know each other.”
“He’s going to
work
here?!” I turn defensively to Miss Patty. “
Are you even sure he knows how to read?
”
“Maddie!” Miss Patty scolds me and then informs me. “Starts this afternoon.”
“It looks like you will have the privilege to spend time with me, Madiekins.”
“Don’t. Call. Me. That.”
I could actually burst out in anger right now.
“Yes, captain.” He salutes, surrendering, and winks.
“I’m leaving. Allison?”
“Right after you. The smell of books was giving me a headache anyway…” She excuses, and I sigh.
“See you after lunch.” I tell Miss Patty.
“I can’t wait!” Jake responds with an amusing tone.
“Wasn’t talking to you, Tweedle Dumber!”
“
I’m
Tweedle Dumber?”
And I only hear Riden laughing.
I start to exit when I hear Allison say to Riden, “See ya, Tweedle Dumb!”
“See ya, Ally!”
Once we’re far enough from the library, I cross my arms and stare at her, an eyebrow raised.
“Ally?”
“Yes, cupcake?” She responds, clearly pretending not to know what I’m talking about.
“Oh, come on, don’t pretend!”
“Riden and I communicate that way, that’s it.”
“You know, for someone who mocks me for a boy liking me, you clearly don’t see what’s happening right in front of you.” I reason.
“Riden and I are matchmakers, nothing else.”
“It seems to me that in the future the matchmakers are gonna get match
maked
.”
“It’s
made
, Madelaine, and
you
and your
ridiculous
ideas.” She sighs.
I’m not kidding. They would be the perfect couple.
We enter the house, and my dad’s already cooking lunch.
“How did it go?” That suspicious glint from earlier in his eyes makes me remember why I came from the library so mad.
“Maddie here, got a pleasant surprise.” A giant smile starts to form on Allison’s face, and she reads my dad. “You knew! That’s awesome.”
“I can’t believe you, Dad! I really thought I was meeting someone interesting…” I state, disappointed.
“Don’t be mean, Madelaine, he’s a great kid.”
I bite the inside of my cheek and nod along. My dad always thought that Jake and I would grow fond of each other and get along, so he couldn’t understand to this day why I disliked him so. To be honest, when he’s not around, I sometimes forget why I don’t like him, but he reminds me with his presence.
“There’s nothing I can do now, so I’m just going to ignore that I have to work with that idiot and eat my problems away. Dad, serve me the biggest piece of meat you have.”
“Here you go.”
I start to eat, and Allison looks at me with an apologetic look.
“It’s not that bad!” She starts. “Look at the bright side. He reads, he plays the guitar, maybe even sings, he’s sweet, and he
likes
you!” I gain a pointed look from her. “And aren’t you people that say
Don’t judge a book by its cover?
”
“Whoa, hold on. Who likes who?” My dad questions.
“Glad you asked, Mr. B. It seems that your little dinner only confirmed my suspicions that
the
idiot, Jake West, likes your daughter.”
My dad gives a curious look as if the idea of him
liking
me wasn’t that bad at all.
I almost choke.
“You actually like that idea,
don’t you?
” I ask, horrified.
“Maybe not date him, but at least be friends with him.”
“Okay, Dad.” I say, but I’m not convinced.
Before I leave, I go upstairs and grab my headphones, just in case Miss Patty has to leave.
I go to the library
alone
, ‘cause Allison says she has already looked at too many books for one day.
When I arrive, I’m ten minutes late, and Miss Patty is at her usual spot.
“Good afternoon, Miss Patty!”
“Maddie, late as usual.” She sends me a reproving look. “Anyways, you, I was expecting, but Jacob should already be here! If you excuse me, I’m going to drag that boy over here by the ear, and I’m going to pay a visit to my son after I make sure that boy is working. So I’m not going to be here the rest of the afternoon.” She says, her voice with a passive-aggressive tone, and then she leaves.
Glad I brought my headphones.
I Won’t Say I’m In Love from Hercules
starts playing, and I obviously start to sing. I have a good voice, but I don’t like singing in front of other people. Only my dad, sister, and Allison heard me sing, and it was only in the shower. I love singing almost as much as I love music. I just get lost in the song, and my voice follows. As simple as that.
I’m organizing some books on the shelf, and I continue to sing
I let the backing vocals continue, and then my turn again.
Suddenly, someone taps my shoulder, and I get scared. As a reflex, I turn around and smack the book on my hand on who I now recognize as West.
“OW!”
I start to laugh and take my headphones off.
“But what were you thinking? Coming behind me and tapping me on the shoulder! You scared the shit out of me!” I’m dying from laughter.
He’s quiet for a moment, and then he starts laughing too. Once we stop laughing, I start to organize the books.
“You have a good voice.”
“Thank you…” I forgot that he heard me sing. Wait, why is he complimenting me?
“All these years and I never realized…” He seems to be talking to himself.
“Maybe because you were too busy with Amanda.” I say her name as though it were disgusting.
“I never understood what you two had against each other…”
“When we were kids, she would… Say that I was a nerd and weak and built like a
stick
.”
I’m glad I at least filled up that department.
“Really? I never noticed…” He looks at me, frowning, and I avert my eyes. “If I had-”
“You would have joined her.” I say as a matter of fact.
“I wouldn’t.” I glance at him, and he’s very earnest, trying to make me understand that he would never bully me like Amanda. Then he smiles to ease the mood. “Besides, I’d like to think you and I have a special relationship. Full of
friendship
and
love
…”
I scoff at how ridiculous he’s being, and he eyes me, amused.
“I’m glad she’s not like that anymore. Amanda.”
Yeah right
. If only he knew…
She’s the kind of girl who’s mean to other girls but an angel in front of the boys. When she realized that being mean would push boys away, especially Jake, she started to use this system.
Silence surrounds us, and for a while, it’s like for the first time ever, we’re coexisting peacefully.
Until
.
“Wanna sing a song with me?” He says, breaking me from my thoughts.
“Why would I do that?” I ask, confused.
“Out of the goodness of your heart?” He tries, and I level him with a cynical stare. “Yeah, alright, I already know it’s frozen, that was a poor choice of words.” He smirks, and I roll my eyes. “But it could be fun. You do know what that means, right? F-U-N, fun?”
“Yes, West, I do know how to spell…”
I throw a book at him, and his laughter fills my ears.
The thing about Jake West’s laughter is that it’s never contained and never halfway. It’s always full and loud, and somehow makes you feel instantly better.
Who said that?
“I just
can’t
.” I ponder talking further about this. There’s no one else to talk about this to right now… “I freeze. I always think I’m going to hit a wrong note and then remember that moment for the rest of my life.
There
, I told you.”
“That’s a little bit drastic…”
My heart thunders inside my chest.
“Of course, forget it, you wouldn’t understand.” I move past him, angry that I even thought about telling him anything whatsoever.
“Wait, I’m sorry, I didn’t mean it as something bad, I’m just- Trying to make you see that things aren’t always as complicated as your head makes it seem.”
I glance at him, worried he’s being nice to me.
“I have an idea.”
“Must be great, coming from you.” I can’t help but mutter, and he narrows his eyes at me.
“I’m trying to be nice here; you have to at least try to do the same thing.”
I puff and come closer as he grabs my headphones.
“I’m going to leave the library, and you’re gonna put a song you love to sing at full volume.” He passes me the headphones.
“And I’m gonna come back when I feel like it, and you’re forbidden to turn around.”
I look unsure at him. And then I look pointedly at him.
“Wait, this isn’t some evil plan of yours to pull a prank on me, is it?”
He eyes me with an offended expression. Then he breaks and turns serious.
“Fine, no. I promise not to pull a prank on you.” He breaks and raises his eyebrows, waiting for an answer.
“And why would I trust you?”
“Why wouldn’t you? Look at this face.” He motions towards it. “Dependable, handsome, out of this world, hypnotising…”
“
Fake
. And
why wouldn’t I?
Do I have to remind you of the time when you made my guinea pig be hit by a car? Or when you woke me up with a hose, and I couldn’t breathe for more than five seconds? Or the time in which you stole all my favorite DVDs and saw me cry and still didn’t return them because you were finding it funny?”
“Okay, okay!
Jesus
, a guy does one thing and all of a sudden, he’s untrustworthy… Besides, the guinea pig was an
accident
.” He shakes his head to reorganize his thoughts. “Look, you have to trust me.”
I stare at him, arms crossed, and he sighs.
“If you do this, then… I won’t tell anyone about your dorky never list…” He dangles it in front of my face, and I’m mortified now.
I already don’t have friends, if anyone knew I made such a thing…
“You
wouldn’t
…” I whisper, and he laughs, an evil laugh.
“Oh, like you didn’t tell everyone at camp that I still wore my Lightning McQueen underwear when we were thirteen?” He takes a step closer and narrows his eyes at me. “Oh,
I think I would…
”
“Fine.” I take the headphones from his malicious hands, and he smiles while getting out of the library.
This argument didn’t even make sense! Why was he blackmailing me in return for something for my own good?
Whatever…
I restart
I Won’t Say I’m In Love
, and I feel my voice shaky, even with my headphones blasting the song, so I can’t
hear anything else. It takes after the chorus for me to pick up some kind of rhythm. Then I close my eyes and pretend I’m singing in the shower.
Throughout my body, I feel my voice blend in with the song, and I start to smile.
He’s not coming back… Even if he is,
I don’t want to think about that right now.
I continue, ignoring my deepest darkest thoughts about how he could be whipping out his phone to record me against my knowledge.
I finish the song and
immediately
turn around and- He’s not holding his phone… He’s
smiling
. Widely. Genuinely. Heartbreakingly so.
I remove the headphones and cross my arms.
“That was a horrible suggestion…”
He laughs that hypnotizing laugh of his, and I force myself to stop looking at him.
“I wasn’t expecting you to admit I’m right… But in my opinion, you nailed it.” He speaks truthfully, and I trip over a chair while hurrying to get back to the books.
“Thanks…” I spit out as if the words are gonna bite me.
“Even though you were a little shaky there at the end.”
“Of
course..
.” I throw him a book, which he catches easily.
I take a deep breath and shake my head.
“
I can do this…
” I whisper to myself.
“Am I that insufferable?” He teases, and I hold back the tears ready to come out.
“Yes. I don’t even know how anyone can stand you for more than five minutes.” I briskly say, and he flinches a bit.
I’m very insecure about my singing. It’s one of the only things I’m good at, and if I expose it to someone and they tell me otherwise… It’s one less thing about me I have faith in.
We spent the rest of the evening pretty silent with each other. He wouldn’t look at me, nor I at him. When our shift is finally over, I move to get out of the library quickly. I don’t look back for him, and the whole way home, I feel myself going into my shell.
We dine, Allison tries to figure out what happened, I feel like I’m overreacting, and then we eventually go to bed early. I mean, she goes to bed early. I “sneak out” to stargaze.
Since I was a kid, stargazing has been my favorite activity. I would wait until the light in my parents’ bedroom turned off and sneak to the garden and stargaze until I fell asleep. The stars are always there, and when I look at them, I remember how small our problems really are.
My phone buzzes beside me on the grass.
Urgh, it’s West.
Evil Spawn
Evil Spawn: *video*
Evil Spawn: one thing checked out of the never list right?
I get up, shocked. Of
fucking course
he recorded me…
Me: YOU RECORDED ME?!
Me: This is why I don’t trust you
Wait. The never list?
Me: How do you remember it’s part of the never list??
Evil Spawn: that’s not the point…
Evil Spawn: the point is, I’ve found my new favorite lullaby to fall asleep to ;)
Me: Is this your way of making up for the fact that you recorded me and almost made me cry this afternoon?
Evil Spawn: Maybe…
Me: That’s not an apology
Evil Spawn: the day we start apologizing to each other, is the day we’ve absolutely lost our shit
Evil Spawn: besides, you should feel honored to have me by your side, helping you check the never list off
Me: Honored?? More like nauseous
Evil Spawn: I feel so much joy inside me knowing only I can cause that reaction in you
Me: Whatever helps you sleep at night whacko
Evil Spawn: believe me, you do ;)
Me: Disgusting. Bye West.
Evil Spawn: Dream of me, will you?
I roll my eyes at my phone.
As if.
OceanofPDF.com

11
Many Death Wishes
The next day, I wake up trying to feel optimistic despite the fact that I’m going to spend the summer tolerating West in my favorite place in this town.
I’m stepping outside the gate, ready for work, when an awful but beautiful black motorcycle passes me, and it is
not
quiet. It was like whoever was riding it was doing it on purpose.
“Stop making noise, you moron!”
I get to the library grumpy and throw my things on the table.
“Is everything okay, Maddie?”
“I’m just grumpy. Some idiot with a motorcycle made sure to make extra noise with it!” And it looks like the sound came back. “Listen! He came back! The nerve!” And then the sound stops abruptly. Finally.
West enters the library with a
motorcycle helmet. You
gotta be kidding me.
It maddens me even more how good-looking he is holding that piece of junk.
“Good evening, ladies.”
“Why the need to make so much noise, West?”
“Right back at you. Do you make it your habit to yell at strangers in the road?”
“Maddie!”
“Well, he was doing it on purpose!” I point at him.
“Maybe…” If only I could wipe that permanent smirk off his face…
“Kids…” Miss Patty sighs and comes back to the computer on the usual table.
“Who in his perfect mind would give you a motorcycle?”
“That would be my dad. But don’t worry, it’s temporary. My birthday’s on the fifteenth, and then I will have my own, and it will be
noisier.
”
I groan.
The day passes by, and when we get out of the library, he reminds me, “Where’s my ice cream?”
“Your what now?” I question, hands on my hips.
“My ice cream. A reward for helping you with the never list.” He steps forward, and his scent, I couldn’t even begin to describe because it’s so inherently him, makes its way into my body, making me lose all my balance. “Unless…” He throws me that dirty look, suggesting I would trade something for ice cream.
I get out of his field of vision, and he follows me. Because, of course, he’s following me.
“I know you’ve thought about it!” He catches up to me as I move to the ice cream shop.
Maybe I have thought about it, or without wanting to,
dreamt
about it, but that will stay with me until I’m in the
grave
.
“Shut up before I regret buying you ice cream.”
He chuckles and finally stands beside me.
“I love how you take care of me and my needs.”
I throw him a glare, and he winks at me.
We walk across the main square, and on the other side is O’Conneley’s Ice Creams. I go to Linda and say, “Hi! How have you been?”
“Great.” And she gets out of the counter to hug me, but something
huge
is blocking.
“You’re
pregnant?!
” I ask excitedly.
“Yes! Seven months. And I’m also engaged.” She responds, showing me the ring in her left hand.
It’s her essence. Elegant and discreet.
“Oh my god!
You’re kidding?!
Why didn’t you tell me?”
“Jesus, you sound like a dying dolphin…” Jake cringes beside me.
“That’s great!” I continue, ignoring Jake. “You and Patrick were always my fairytale couple.”
Linda is ten years older than I am, and she would babysit my sister and me through the summer, when my dad would have dinner with his friends, like the Wests. And Patrick was the West’s babysitter, so we would go to each other’s house, and eventually Linda and he got together, and they were the
cutest
. Made the romance books and movies real.
“When will the wedding be?”
“We want it to be before this little girl is born, so we were thinking about next month. We are starting to send the invitations, and you and Jake are obviously getting one.”
“Great. I’ve always imagined how your wedding would be…” I say, hopeful and dream-like.
“You’ve always been a hopeless romantic, Maddie. What will you have?” She asks, pointing to the ice creams.
“It’s not for me, it’s for this guy.” I clarify, pointing to Jake and sighing, just because his presence is annoying.
“Sorry, Jake, I haven’t talked to you yet. Everything alright? Where’s Amanda?” She sincerely asks, wanting to know, and I snort, trying to hide the laughter. It’s funny, because everyone in this village knows that they haven’t left each other’s sight since they met at the beginning of every summer since they were thirteen.
“They haven’t laid eyes on each other yet.” I grin.
“Ha ha.” Jake responds.
“Oh.” Linda smiles, embarrassed.
“It’s okay,” Jake says. “I would like one ball of strawberry ice cream.”
She takes the spoon and serves him. I pay, say goodbye to Linda, and we get out of there. I direct us to the village’s board. It’s where all the important information about what’s going on in the village is.
I see that the annual fair is to be held a month from today.
“Brown!” West startles me. “There’s gonna be a talent show on the main stage at the fair, a month from now.”
“So…?”
“So, you should sing.”
“No way, West. I don’t like singing in front of people, let alone singing in front of the whole
village
.”
“Oh, come on! I’ll sing with you, so it’s less frightening.”
“In what world is my being next to you considered not frightening?” I rhetorically ask, and he rolls his eyes.
“You’re right, I wouldn’t want to be turned into stone…“ I walk faster, and he catches up. “Brown, we can sing any song you want.”
“Any song?” He does know how to get my attention.
“Yep.”
“Okay, I will try to do it if we sing… I don’t know yet, but I’ll tell you.”
“Let me know when you figure it out, and I’ll start practicing.”
He is so excited that it seems endearing. I suppress a laugh, and he smiles. We’re staring at each other until someone starts to talk to him.
“Jakey! Didn’t know you were in town!”
Amanda Devadhikar
. That spoiled rich girl. She owns the only mansion in town. Wondered why she hasn’t put her claws in Jake yet. But wait!
What is this?
She has another boy attached to her hip. I turn to Jake and see that he is so confused and definitely looks hurt. I don’t know if I’m sorry for him or if I’m happy for him.
He finally finds his voice.
“Yeah, I came early to spend time with grandma. Who is this?” He asks casually as though he doesn’t care, but I know he cares. A lot. The two of them have dated every summer since they were thirteen. You can’t forget someone like that, even though he dates many,
many
girls throughout the school years.
“This is my umm… Callen.” The boy smiles, but Jake’s not finding this funny.
“West, come on, my dad needs help with the lawn.” I say, and he takes the hint.
“Goodbye, skan- I mean,
Amanda
.” I send her a fake smile, and she pretends not to have listened to what I just said. I grab Jake’s hand and lead him through the street until we reach my house.
“I can’t believe you, Brown.” He says, smiling. “You were going to call her a
skank
, weren’t you?”
“I don’t know what you are talking about.” I roll my eyes innocently.
“You didn’t have to, you know.” He is looking at me. “She didn’t even do anything wrong, I mean, we are not together, but I just expected-”
“Don’t get me wrong, both of you are skanks, I just stated a fact.” I cut in, explaining that it wasn’t like I suddenly liked him.
“I’m not a skank.”
“Skank, slut, whore, whatever helps you sleep.” I dryly say. “Because it just can’t be normal, the amount of different girls at school that put their tongues down your throat,
every single day
.”
“Seems like you have been counting, watching me much?” He winks. I snort and stick my tongue out in a disgusted way.
“It’s a little hard not to, since half the time you choose the locker next to mine for your makeout sessions.” His face drops, and I glow inside. I remember what we were talking about and finish the conversation.
“Besides, our parents are best friends, in some weird, unspoken clause, I felt like I had to.”
“
Acquaintances.
” He states proudly, smiling smugly, and I
deny
.
“No, no, just forced proximity.”
“You know that’s how every great love story starts.”
“In your
dreams.
”
“Maybe.”
Oh my god.
“Goodbye, West.” I’m about to open the gate when I realise that my fingers are still stuck in his. I look at my hand, break it from his like it’s disgusting, and clean it on my clothes. And then blush hard.
“Oh, you are never washing that hand again, are you?” He laughs, and I choose to ignore him and get in. Also, my cheeks are burning up. “Those red cheeks make my day, Brown!” And he winks. I shake my head and sigh.
“
Goodbye, West
.” I repeat.
He starts to go to his house, and when he is almost reaching his gate, he shouts, “Love you, pain in my ass!”
“Stop that!” I shout, warning him, but smiling.
I go to the living room, where Allison is watching TV.
“Why are you goofy smiling?”
Am I?
Just be normal.
“I’m not!”
“What happened with him?” She arches an eyebrow. This girl knows everything inside my mind ever since the day we met.
“Nothing. But you won’t believe what happened! I was buying him ice cream because he actually helped me with something, and we ran into Amanda,
but
she’s not alone!”
“You’re kidding!”
“No, she had some guy attached to her hip, and Jake was skeptical because he assumed that they were going to date and asked who that person was, and
then
she said,
This is my uh, Callen
.”
“That slut!”
“That’s what I said! I mean, I almost called her a skank…’”
“You what?!” She narrows her eyes. “Oh, because no one messes with your boyfriend…” She attacks me and ruffles my hair.
“Shut up! It’s not like that.”
She stops and turns very serious.
“You know what he needs? A night out with Riden and us. Maybe we could go to that club here!”
“You know what… Why not?”
It’s about time.
“Really?”
She starts to laugh so hard.
“What?” I question.
“You’re so smitten with him.”
“You are so tiring, Allison.” I turn the other way and act casual. “We should maybe go a week from now, because I have
some stuff to help my dad with. Just call Riden and tell him, please.”
She evil-laughs, and I try not to smile.
OceanofPDF.com

12
No One Saw That Coming. No One.
A week passes, and Jake’s mood is still the same. He makes an effort not to be a downer around me, but he’s always distancing himself. I mean, I would be suffering too.
I tease him, and sometimes he smiles, but then returns to the mood.
I don’t like him like this. Not because I care or anything, but because usually it’s the other way around, you know. I’m the moody and non-responsive one, and he annoys me until I regrettably smile…
So when Friday arrives, I go to the library with a mission.
Jake’s already there.
“Good morning!” I exclaim.
“You’re disgustingly happy.” He says melancholic.
“I’m going to a club for the first time.”
I don’t even know why I am so excited.
“Really? You’ve never been to one?”
“No,
West
, I’m a minor, how could I have been to one?” I throw his way, and I see him struggling not to break loose his smirk.
“Some
other
people find their ways…” He shrugs absentmindedly.
“And you wouldn’t happen to know these people, now would you?”
He scoffs as though it’s freakishly obvious.
“Brown, I
am
the people. The first time I went to a club, I must have been around fourteen.” He stops what he’s doing just to emphasize. “And yeah, I am
that
good.”
“I knew you couldn’t resist bragging about yourself. It’s stronger than you.” I pass him by, a pile of books in my hands.
“Whatever. Have you thought about what song we’re singing?”
“I have actually, and it’s a classic…” He frowns, waiting for me, and I restrain myself from doing jazz hands. “Don’t Go Breaking My Heart by Elton John and Kiki Dee!”
“Yeah, that seems about right.”
“What, why?”
“Old and underestimated, like your soul.” He crosses his arms, and was that a compliment? I can’t tell…
“Thank you?” I decide to answer, and he can’t help but break out his once-in-a-lifetime smile, smile lines accentuating his cheeks. The kind of smile that imprints in your brain and blesses your dreams…
No comments.
“I have to go.” I drop the books on the round table and move to the door.
“What, why?” He asks in the distance.
“Because! I- I have to get ready for tonight!”
“But Brown- It’s only five!”
I hear him say, just as I shut the door.
The summer heat hits me in the face just like his smile did.
Why did that happen? I’ve seen that smile a couple of hundred times, more than I can count, and usually at several other girls. It’s like a drug, but I have never taken an interest…
Huh…
Yet another thing to overthink tonight…
As soon as I set foot inside the house, I feel myself getting dragged upstairs.
“It’s makeover time!”
“Oh no…” I don’t know why I argue. I end up beautiful from Allison’s makeovers, but I guess I’m too stubborn.
My dad says I get it from my mother. The last thing I want is to be compared to
her
. I’m confident about everything except her. When someone mentions her, I turn tense and feel so much hate with the tiniest bit of love inside. After all, she abandoned us when I was nine and when Lindsey was just three… One day I was in the living room with my sister, and the next thing I knew, my mother, who was talking with my dad in the kitchen, came to us and said
goodbye
and left. That’s why I hate being stubborn, I hate having a short temper, I hate my natural waves in my hair, and lastly, I hate how these are the only things I have to remember her by. I burned and cut all the photos that existed in the house with her face. I got scared that my dad would be mad at me, but instead he made me promise that I wouldn’t do that again and hugged me. And then I had a
massive
meltdown.
Allison noticed my face and knew exactly what I was thinking about.
“Mads… I’m sorry, you said you didn’t want makeup-”
“It’s fine.”
I decide to push my feelings aside. I’ve been doing this since
the
meltdown, and that happened one month after she left. Haven’t cried about her ever since, and I’m glad I managed to stay away from my feelings.
Alls is worried and keeps looking at me the whole time with an apologetic look.
“Can you pass me the straightener?” I press a smile with my lips, and she nods reluctantly.
Off with the waves… Just like every day since I was nine.
Allison leaves me alone, making up the excuse of having to go tell my dad something, but really, she knows I need my alone time right now.
As the iron flattens my hair, I feel my eyes overflowing.
Don’t cry because it happened, smile because it’s over, right?
I look up, stopping my eyes from watering even more.
This is not the mentality for tonight. Tonight is about having fun! And putting yourself out there! Yay…
I bring myself downstairs and walk into my dad’s and Allison’s hushed conversation. I don’t have time to ask them about it because my dad’s hand flies to his mouth.
“Oh Maddie…”
“Dad, stop, come on…” I look down, embarrassed. “Stop making it a big deal, I’m going now.” I move to the door, so I don’t have to see my dad crying.
“I’m okay, Maddie, come back!”
I return just to see exactly what I was afraid of.
That look
.
“You look…” Like her, I can see it in his eyes. “Beautiful, honey.” He ends up saying.
“Thanks, Dad. I think we should be going… Alls?” She gets herself off the chair, sensing the undertone between us.
“No drinking, no coming too late, and lastly, have fun.”
“Bye, Mr. B!” Allison responds, and we get out of the door. We reach the gate and find the boys already waiting on the other side.
“Howdy, y’all ready for some
fun
?” Allison shouts in the most exaggerated southern accent ever.
“Again, we’re still in New Jersey.” I add from behind her.
“
Again
, I’ve seen at least three farms in this town.” She points at me, and I roll my eyes.
I turn to the boys, and Jake’s taking me in. I look down at my clothes and start to overthink them. Wait, I’m dressed fine, I should be looking at
him
. He’s wearing a white shirt and some beige shorts, basic but pretty.
“Who knew you owned something other than t-shirts?” I cross my arms, not letting his eyes trailing my skin get to me.
“Right back at you, Brown.” He places his hands in his pockets and smiles a contented smile at me.
I break his eyes from mine and grab Allison’s arm, lightly squeezing it.
“It’s okay, we’re gonna have fun!” She whispers so the boys can’t hear.
I nod to convince myself.
We all make our way to the club that’s located three stores to the right of the library.
When we get there, I can already hear the music.
Like a G6 by Far East Movement
is playing, and Allison doesn’t let me pout. She grabs my arm and brings me to the middle of the dance floor. It’s pretty dark with different colors appearing now and then. It’s a square room with speakers everywhere. We can get to the counter if we go straight ahead, and the rest is a dance floor, with a DJ booth on the left wall.
The song vibrates through my body, and I can’t help but feel at home. I take a peek at Jake, and he’s staring at me, which is weird, so I whip my head away from his look.
When the song ends, Allison and I go to meet the boys, and the DJ announces, “Since it’s the beginning of the night and most of you are still conscious and sober, let’s play a slow!”
Thinking Out Loud by Ed Sheeran
starts playing, and I stand, looking around awkwardly.
I love this song.
As if reading my mind, Jake arches an eyebrow, grabs my hand, and drags me to the dance floor.
“What are you d-”
“For once in your life,
please
don’t argue, Brown.” He says, chuckling.
“Since you said
please
…” I feign annoyance and, without knowing why, let him take me.
He moves his hands to my waist, a safe place, without breaking eye contact, and I instinctively put my hands around his neck. He is just so-
Frustrating
and-
Intoxicating
. This time, I don’t scold myself for thinking this. I can’t really allow that kind of mess into my brain with the song playing through my whole body. There are a lot of people on the dance floor, but in this moment, there’s just me and him, and just for a moment, I forget that I’m not supposed to be this close to him, because he doesn’t see me that way. He still likes Amanda a lot, and that’s why I’m giving him this favor. I feel
sorry
for him.
I keep that thought in the back of my mind. He sways me through the song, making me spin and so many other things, and I hate to admit that I love every minute of it. Damn him. He has a look of adoration in his eyes, and I just smile.
It’s just the thrill of the chase.
I push those thoughts away, I have to.
Time seems to have frozen. And by the time I notice, every second we inch closer and closer and closer, I can feel his breath… His eyes struggle from my eyes to below them, and-
What the
- Someone bumps into me and… It’s Allison. She’s making questionable moves along with Riden, and it’s not like they are not enjoying it. I see that the slow has gone a long time ago and turned to a more upbeat song, also known as
S&M by Rihanna
, which is already more than halfway.
Just how long did I dance with him?
I realize what I have done. I need to get away from him. God,
what was I thinking?
I grab Allison’s hand and take her far away from Riden, leaving him with Jake.
Well, it’s not like Jake minded it one bit. He already has a girl dancing practically glued to him, rubbing against him, and his signature smirk is gigantic. Of course. Of course, I was just a dance he was ready to finish, just to start a different one. His little womanizer self just couldn’t stay satisfied with
one girl and one dance.
I feel eyes on me, and look at Riden. He’s looking at me strangely, and I realise why. My eyes were practically closed with the intense glare I was sending the little duo. I then feel someone move their wrist in my grasp and remember what I was doing. I turn to my crazy best friend and ask, “How much have you drunk?”
“Me?! I’m definitely
not
drunk!” Yeah, she’s wasted. I mean, how is that even possible? We got here like fifteen minutes ago.
“Alls! I’m serious!” The music is so loud that I sound like a crazy lady, shouting close to her ear.
“I may or may not have drunk a few shots…” I sigh. This girl. “You know, Mads, you should try it!”
“No way.” I feel it leaving my mouth, but I don’t really mean it.
I’m so angry at my dad, at my mom, and like always at West that I just-
I walk confidently to the bar and set my purse on the counter.
“What’s the strongest you got?” I shout at the bartender, and he moves to take out a bottle of liquid resembling water.
“Absinthe!” He shouts back, and I send him a thumbs-up.
He fills three shots, and I pay, sitting on the high barstool, bracing myself for them.
Mom
. My hand grabs the shot and downs it. It tastes like hand sanitizer, but I don’t care.
You look…
Another shot. My head begrudgingly moves to West, and he’s grabbing her waist. Last one.
I feel my stomach kind of rejecting it, but I push it down.
I get up and find Allison. A song passes, then another, and I don’t feel any different, so I make the decision to ask for two more shots of the same stuff.
I down them like I’m used to it, and I’m here every other weekend, but I don’t care. Today is
all
about letting loose. No more sad, pathetic Madelaine…
Okay, this kind of has a kick to it. My stomach protests, but I ignore it. Allison dances like our lives depend on it, and I don’t look in West’s direction anymore. I dance, feeling the vibrations through my body, and close my eyes, letting the music take me.
I feel someone laying their hand on my back, and my eyes shot wide open. He’s
handsome
… And I’ve never seen him around here. Good. Because he doesn’t know me. And he doesn’t know I don’t usually dance with strangers.
I’m so dizzy, though, the lights are all blurred…
He places both hands on my hips, and I let my head fall backwards, trying to gain a sense of my surroundings. Lights and a heavy bass are all I can make up. I feel something in my neck, and oh, it’s him. This is definitely a first. I can’t find the will to push him away, so I don’t. Who says I can’t be this girl? An Allison, if you will? Heck, I’m sure that by now she has already made out with half the guys in here.
Maybe
this is supposed to be my first kiss.
I avoid a hiccup and turn to his face. I can’t even tell his features; I can only say he’s
handsome
.
I feel someone yank me back, and next thing I know the guy is- PUNCHED, WHAT?!
West turns around, shaking his hand and standing over the guy who’s now on the ground. Oh
hell no
.
“Are you crazy?!” I shout at him, pushing his chest, and he frowns at me.
“He had his hands all over you, and you’re drunk!” He reasons back, a circle forming around the mess.
“You can have your hands all over the redhead, but I can’t be with him?!” This argument is stupid, but at the same time, it makes sense in my head.
“It’s different! You can’t even stand!” He gestures at me, and I attempt to walk sober to him but trip into his arms. He catches me, but as soon as I realize I’m in his arms, I push him away.
“Just go find another girl!” I shout at him and move to sit at the bar. He doesn’t follow me, but every now and then I catch him staring at me, making sure I’m not throwing myself at another
guy
, I’m sure.
Soon enough, Allison finds me, exhausted, and hugs me.
“Girl, are you drunk?” She grabs my head and looks me in the eyes. “You are!”
I let myself free from her grasp. And then my eyes look outside the club’s window. Looks like Amanda found Jake. But they’re
arguing
.
I grab Allison’s arm and drag her outside.
We step out of the club and pass through the crowd of people who are happily watching them fight.
Riden finds us and stands right next to me, watching the scene.
“Why did you do it?” He asks, a hand running down his face.
“I need a reason to date someone?”
“Come on, Amanda!” He speaks louder, and he is so exhausted.
Maybe he shouldn’t be dancing with the redhead…
Wait, focus.
“I’m stopping this.” Riden starts to move, but I place a hand in front of him.
“Wait, I got this.” I would love to tell you what went through my head to do this, but I really can’t put it together.
I get to them, and their conversation fades, both a bit surprised.
“Who called the town’s loner?” She levels me with a look and I laugh ironically.
“I don’t recall people calling the town’s bitch either, yet here you are.”
She looks like I slapped her, and West is just wide-eyed next to me.
“We were having a private conversation, if you couldn’t tell.” She tries to kick me out, frustrated.
“I can see that.” I gesture around at the crowd, and her use of the word
private
. “What are you talking about?”
She glares at me, shiny black hair blinding me even during the night.
“The subject doesn’t concern you.”
“I think when the subject is my boyfriend, I am concerned.” It flies out of my mouth before I can even think about it.
The crowd gasps, and Allison and Riden are just smiling so much. As for Jake, he is as surprised as I am, eyebrows shooting up and mouth wide open.
Oh noo no no no no,
I take it back!
“
What?! What are you talking about?!
” Amanda’s face is so red with anger that it is funny.
“For god’s sake, are you
that
slow?” I ask, smiling.
I have to smile through this internal freak-out.
“Let’s see if your pea-sized brain can understand this.
West and I
are
together
. As in a
romantic way
…” I make a lot of gestures like she is a five-year-old and her head is about to explode. I’ve always known how to deal with her. Before she can say anything else, I say, smiling,
“Lovely talk, Amanda. Unfortunately, I have to go. Have a good night.” And with that, I grab Jake’s hand, and before we go home, I go to Allison and Riden.
“Wanna go with us?” I ask as if nothing happened.
“No, you two go, I’ll stay here with him.” She’s wearing the brightest smile I’ve ever seen on her.
I stumble out of the crowd, fingers always on his, and for a while, I even forget I’m dragging him along. The night is so quiet and the sky so clear… I stop in the middle of the street and look up. For a few moments, all is right with the world. My head isn’t pounding, my stomach isn’t recoiling, and my mom didn’t leave me.
I close my eyes and take a deep breath. When I prop them open, I find Jake staring at me.
“Hi,
boyfriend.
” A giggle escapes my mouth, and I cover it right away.
“What’s going on?” He places his hands in his pockets, and I scrunch my nose.
“Nothing is going on, I just saved you from Amanda, uh, you’re welcome.” I scoff, attempting to walk forward but feeling myself go down. He grabs me.
“I mean, with you. What’s going on with you?”
I try to stay awake and remind myself we’re almost home.
“Nothing.” I look up at his face and see him clenching his jaw. “Are you mad at me?” I bite my lip, suddenly unsure of what I did. He flashes me that great smile of his to settle my feelings.
“Since when have you cared if I was mad at you?”
“I pretend I don’t, but I do.”
He sighs, and his smile drops, being replaced by a knowing look.
“No, I’m not mad at you.” He simply says and lets me rest against the gate while he opens it.
He takes me inside and OH-
“My dad!” I whisper yell, stopping him from getting me to my room. “He’s gonna kill me if he sees me!”
West nods and takes me to the living room instead. Oh, I love these couches, best nap
ever
.
I let myself fall on the softest cushions my body has ever had the pleasure to lie on, and I feel West taking off my shoes.
When I open my eyes again, West is sitting in front of me, on the ground.
“Thanks for the help, you can go now.” I grin and my eyes half-close.
“C’mon, Brown, I know I’m your favorite person.” He wiggles his eyebrows, and I laugh.
“
Ha!
You wish!” He covers my mouth because I must’ve been loud, and then removes it.
“What happened?” He asks me, and I feel a lump in my throat. I hate that he can see through me, even though he’s the last person who should.
The room falls silent, and darkness surrounds us. My head settles, but not before something slips out.
“I look like her.” I confess to the darkness and feel the emotion rise up in my throat.
“Like who?” He asks, and I manage to get it out.
“Like my mom.” I open my eyes to find comfort in his. It’s like some sort of understanding goes through him, and his eyes soften somehow.
“I don’t know, you always looked like Madelaine Brown to me. Stubborn, fiery, and a pain in my ass.”
A smile takes hold of my mouth, and my chest decompresses, like a weight has been lifted.
“Are you mad at me?” I ask, feeling some sort of deja vu.
He chuckles. “No, Brown, I’m not.” Pause. “I could never be mad at you.”
Then I close my eyes, feeling like I’m in the clouds and no problem of mine could ever touch me or affect me again.
OceanofPDF.com

13
I Am THAT Stupid
I wake up in the living room, feeling like my stomach is about to burst. Slowly, my arms elevate my body, and- What is West doing here?!
I throw him a pillow, and he wakes up, looking like he doesn’t know where he came from either.
“Why are you infecting my couch?”
“Excuse me?” He runs a hand down his face. “Oh, you’re your delightful self again, super…”
What?
“What do you mean? What happened last night?”
Besides, me being an idiot who drank five shots.
“Oh, this is gold… You don’t remember, do you?” His annoying smirk takes hold of him, and I throw another pillow, and he dodges it. “That’s not the way to treat your boyfriend, now is it?”
“My
what?!
” I have never been more confused.
“Let’s see, after your little jealousy fit inside the club, because you
love
me and can’t stand to see me dancing with someone else,” I roll my eyes at that made-up story… “Amanda got hold of me, and you decided to announce to the whole village that we’re dating.” He places his hand behind his back, grinning and happy with himself, and my heart drops.
Jealousy fit? Me?
We’re dating?!
“Well, everyone could see I wasn’t in my right mind, so West, sorry to burst your bubble, but we’re over. Goodbye.”
He laughs and settles even more into the couch.
“Yeah, no, you can’t take it back.” He states matter-of-factually. “Pretty much all of the gossip teens heard us. We
have
to do it.”
“Are you- No, we
don’t
.” I look at him as though he’s dumb. “
Never
in a million years would we date-”
“Jesus, okay, I would be a fantastic boyfriend, but go on…” He acts all irritated, and I proceed.
“We don’t owe them anything. It was just something stupid that came out of my mouth; it can’t be taken seriously.”
“Ah, so I shouldn’t take anything that comes out of your mouth seriously, then?”
I throw another pillow in his direction and fall on the couch.
“This isn’t happening.” I state, and he looks bemusedly at me.
“Well, good luck with that, because everyone officially thinks we’re dating, and I don’t know how you are getting us out of this one.”
He’s so annoying.
Yes, I did create this problem, but should I find a solution? It came out. As simple as that. Why can’t everyone just have amnesia and forget about it?
“Wait, what if…”
“Oh no. No no. We’re done. Whatever this is.”
“Brown, just put your hate for me on pause for a second and listen.”
I stand still, arms crossed, staring at his flustered self. That is pretty rare coming from him. It’s amusing, really.
“Your lie actually helps me. I can make Amanda jealous in a way she never has been because I would be dating
you
.” He schemes before my eyes, and I’m not gonna lie, pissing off Amanda is really rewarding, but having to spend every day with him is probably more than my mental health can bear.
“So you want to use me.”
“Well, you used me first.”
“I wasn’t thinking!”
“Yeah, and because of your damaged brain cells, we’re stuck together.” He scrunches up his nose with a know-it-all attitude.
“Oh, I wish I hadn’t done anything and just let you be miserable!” I groan in such frustration. These words are harsh, but he doesn’t seem to care. Actually, he’s smiling a too gigantic smile.
I still shake my head, saying
no
in every possible way to get it into his thick skull. His thick skull has an allergy to my words.
“Just think about it.” He sings with too much amusement, like he knows I’m going to say yes. He can dream on.
“Reduce your dreams and hopes to negative numbers, West.” I throw, leaving it as our goodbye.
I get up and head to the kitchen, just making faces alone.
He’s crazy
. Never ever
ever
would I get into a fake relationship with him. Ever.
OceanofPDF.com

14
Plan To Fail
It’s 2 AM and Allison has a list of pros and cons. Pros written by her, cons written by me. Let’s not dive into how I got myself into this.
PROS:
Reads
Plays guitar/sings > knows about music
Will OWE me
I will (maybe) get out of the house more??/New experience
Would make the parents and Miss Patty happy
Amanda will be beyond mad
CONS:
Irresponsible
Will make me go through living hell
Doesn’t care about me/my interests
Hand holding and potential feelings
“There’s another thing we can put in the pros. You won’t get humiliated by telling a fat lie in front of more than half the teens in this village.”
“Alls, I almost cared for a second there.”
So, maybe this is partially true. I don’t care about what anyone says to a certain point. Thus, I can take the awkward-anti-social teen label off of me and not intensify it.
“How are those pros?” I point at the things she wrote on the whiteboard, and she starts, pointing with a pen at each.
“He reads, so maybe you can fill your time with conversations about books, and maybe he can recommend new books.” She moves down with a very strong determination. “He knows about music, maybe as much as you, so then again, can recommend and exchange opinions.”
I’m sitting against the wall, trying to get her words into my head.
“He will owe you, and you know you want that.”
I shrug, my eyebrows agreeing.
“He’s adventurous, while you’re the opposite, therefore maybe can show you cool things to do in this small town. And honorable mentions are the parents’ happiness and an enraged Amanda.” She bows as if she gave a very important presentation and gives me room to explain my cons.
I grab the board pen and proudly walk to my points.
“He is irresponsible, and his so-called adventures most of the time aren’t thought through, so I can get hurt.”
Allison nods, not forming an opinion yet.
“He will daily remind me that I chose by my own choice to do this with him, making my precious summer vacation hours a living hell, which brings me to the next point.”
I practically smack the pen against the board.
“He doesn’t care about me or my interests, so our conversations would be meaningless, just to pass the time.”
I sigh, staring at the last.
“And probably the most important one, I would have to probably hold Jake West’s hand and act in love, which honestly I think is outstanding considering it goes against my nature.”
“How is hand-holding worse than kissing?” Allison frowns, and my heart stops for a bit.
“Kissing?” I gasp. “Do you think there will be kissing?” I whisper as if it’s some national security top secret.
“You have to be a little curious.” She continues ignoring my freak-out.
“That is so ridiculous, I’m not even going to answer that.” I cross my arms, and she smirks that I-know-you-want-it smirk.
The voice of reason speaks to me.
If I forget it’s with him, this deal is, I cannot deny I am a little curious about it. Not about the kiss, but I’m a romance reader, and fake-dating is one of my top three tropes.
It could be something worth telling my kids one day. Lately, I’ve been weirdly reminded about that by my dad, since he watches me do the same routines every day just like clockwork. He always says that I’m a teen, and this is when the fun begins. I don’t wanna be those adults who have nothing interesting to tell about their teen years, and if I have an opportunity right now, I should take it.
It’s better to regret something you did than to regret something you never did.
And that sentence pushed my will from denying this deal to jumping into this mess.
OceanofPDF.com

15
Highschool Sweethaters
“Look who it is.” Jake West is balancing and throwing a small sponge ball from one hand to the other, lying on his bed, as he knows better.
“I hate you.”
“Yet, here you are. So, do we have a deal?”
I stare at his mischievous hazel eyes and his devil smile, and I need to answer before I can change my mind. Like I did this morning. Three times. Allison literally kicked me out.
“Yes.” The word feels strange in my mouth, and I articulate it like so.
“Wow, seeing you struggle like that. It was the most beautiful thing I’ve ever seen.” He wipes a fake tear, and I feel my veins getting more dilated from all the blood burning from hatred.
“I’m sorry for the person who’s gonna end up with you.”
“Ah, the self-pity.”
I humph triumphantly and then catch what he just said.
“What?”
A smirk grows larger on his face as does the shade on my cheeks, and he
winks
.
“You stop that!” I groan loudly, and he just sits there, viciously smiling, and I get out of this Manwhoric room.
As soon as I’m stepping out, he speaks louder.
“Please close the door, girlfriend!”
I stop and, feeling like my heart could explode from such anger, I go to his door frame, and since I left the door halfway open, I open it even more.
“That’s just rude!” He shouts as I leave his room, calming myself and repeating,
He’s not worth it
. That’s a brief summary of my interactions with him and, honestly, my life.
* * *
Talking with the stars reassures me I’m not going crazy. Allison is long gone asleep, and it’s fair since it’s 3 AM. I didn’t bring myself to take a pill today, so I’m just lying with the stars and really thinking if it’s worth it.
I’m playing with the long-distance flashlight and pointing it randomly at spots, avoiding windows from my house, not caring so much about pointing it at a certain someone’s window. He
definitely
deserves
that
.
The flashlight is a good distraction from my inner thoughts because when I’m alone with them, it can go from light to dark really fast. Most of the time, I replay my mum leaving, and it causes me tiny anxiety. Okay, tiny
big
anxiety.
I wish I’d run after her. At least say goodbye. Those are the things I feed myself ever since she left. I wasn’t that young when
she left because I was old enough to remember all the good times with her. Sometimes I feel guilty because I wish I were Lindsey and didn’t mostly remember her. It pains my heart to even think about it.
I feel light in my eyes, and it’s not coming from
my
flashlight.
“It’s nice, isn’t it?” He rhetorically asks, and I close my eyes, my depressive thoughts leaving me and being replaced by murderous ones.
“Just go away.” I push him, and for a moment there, I really thought it worked. Of course it didn’t, but a girl can still dream.
“Is that the way to greet your new boyfriend?”
I feel my breath heavy and a lot of regret coming from my insides. “Well, I guess you wouldn’t know…”
My jaw drops open. He did not.
“What’s that supposed to mean?” I support myself on my elbows, and my eyes glare at him.
He is still holding himself over the fence, and I sure hope he doesn’t come any closer, or something bad is gonna happen. It always does. Besides, nothing good can come of a hopeless romantic having late-night talks with a gorgeous next-door boy.
“Nothing, forget I said anything. It slipped.” He shrugs not so regretfully.
It slipped my ass.
“I have gone on dates…” I defend out loud, with this unrequested will.
“I didn’t say you didn’t.”
When I just practically scream with my face, he senses he has to elaborate.
“But never more than one, right? Date?”
I want to argue, but I can’t because he’s
right
.
I’m seventeen, and I have gone on five dates. With five different guys. It should be great. It wasn’t.
First boy, fourth grade.
Huge
crush on Jeremy Rylor. We went out for ice cream on a sunny afternoon in May. It was perfect, until a wasp got near us, he screamed the most high-pitched sound I heard to this day, and like a genius, started to get rid of it with his cap. I got stung.
All the other four dates escalated from there as if that’s possible. Believe me, it
was
.
My last date was this March. Blade Topper. He was charming, attractive, and
so
funny. His girlfriend thought so too. I got out of that date with an unnecessary slap, and water was splattered all over me.
I got home, and the Wests were over, but I went straight to the room, locked it, and cried. A lot.
“It’s none of your business.” I say, my voice fading a little remembering all those disasters.
I lay back down, distraught and embarrassed by those memories.
How can all of them have failed? Some dark part of me thinks in some way I messed it up. And another part of me repeats in a big neon sign ‘PEOPLE LEAVE’. Either way, it’s not good.
He’s still pointing the flashlight at me, waiting for something.
“Well, it didn’t work out, now leave me alone.” I lay back down, seriously hoping to have some peace.
“I kinda feel like I ruined one of them.”
“You
kinda feel
?”
Date number three. Carter Ryleigh. Seventh grade to eighth grade. Summer, beneath the fence at night. He was more of the nerdy type, ideal for me, spending the summer in this town with his grandparents for a while. We were talking about how good the fourth Harry Potter book was, and then two people in Halloween masks and a bucket approached us. Last thing I know, eggs were being thrown, and my date was mad because I knew those bullies, and they said I
told
them to do this. He fled
the scene before I could even say sorry. I did get my revenge when I hid his video games, and he was miserable for a whole month.
“Okay, it was my fault. Riden’s parents dropped him off during the whole summer and rarely called, and he needed some fun. At the time, I thought I was a genius, but I was a dick.”
I open my mouth, outraged, but then catch myself.
Did Jake West admit he was a dick?
“I may not know much about relationships, but you’re one to talk.”
“Yeah, I know.”
A surprisingly comfortable silence sits between us, and when I finally think he’s gone, he speaks.
“I just realized we both are terrible with relationships. Shouldn’t we prepare or something?”
I hesitate. I know I have to do this. It’s protocol. It would be foolish of me not to set rules and boundaries and stories straight after reading so many books about fake dating. We don’t have to do it all today, but at least set some things straight.
I exhale harshly, closing my eyes.
“Okay, we need to talk about some stuff.” I huff because stargazing just got ruined.
And a tiny bit of relief catches my breath when I realise I won’t be alone with my depressing thoughts.
I tap the spot next to mine. He looks at me strangely, and I send him a pointed look.
“I don’t bite.”
“Well, I remember…”
“That was one time!” I protest, the tiniest bit of a smile showing.
Yep, I already bit him. What? We were kids! He was going to wet me with a water hose, and he was grabbing me, so I, you know, bit him.
“Okay, okay…” But he sends me a suspicious look. I roll my eyes. He sits next to me, and I start to speak:
“How did this start?”
“We were in the library, and you confessed your adoration for me. You wouldn’t be the first one.” He says, grinning, and I snort.
“Something more realistic, if you will?” I arch an eyebrow.
“Hey, it doesn’t have to be adoration. It can be dying passion.” He mocks casually.
“West, I’m serious!” I smack his arm.
“Fine…” Jake looks into my eyes, and a warm feeling washes over me. I hate that strange look.
“Uh! I know!” I break his gaze. “We were in the library the next day you saw Amanda with what’s his name, and we talked and understood each other well, and for the first time ever we weren’t fighting, so we gave it a chance.”
“That seems good. I’m glad all those romance books and movies had any use in that head of yours.” I just look at him, dumbfounded, and then lie on the blanket and start to look at the stars.
“So what’s your fascination with stargazing?” He asks laying down too.
“I don’t know. I guess I feel calm when I look at the stars. It’s one of the things I can sleep with, without sleeping pills.”
“Oh yes. That alarm the other day, was it for that? Sleeping pills?”
“Yes.” I say distant. I’m a very pensive person, and at night my head just doesn’t stop thinking. I only manage to fall asleep under the stars or embraced with my family. So I guess with things that I love.
“Why do you need them?”
“Why do you care?” I ask back briskly. It’s bad enough we have to date, let alone reveal my inner thoughts.
“Just curious.” He responds, calm, as if I wasn’t an idiot just now to him. “Whatever the reason is, I’m sorry for that.”
“Why are you being nice?” I ask, getting deja vu from years ago.
“I’m preparing myself for the upcoming days. I mean, we really are going to appear to be-
In love
.” He hesitates on the words, surely because he never felt it. I haven’t either. “I guess we have to make an effort to get along.” His voice breaks through the darkness.
“In the streets and in front of relatives. Don’t even think I’m going to go easy on you when we’re alone.” I laugh, already enjoying the upcoming remarks.
“If we ever get the chance to be alone, someone is going to die.” He dramatically says, a hint of amusement in his voice.
“Can’t say it was nice knowing you.” I shrug mockingly.
“Same.” Pause. “So, did you ever find a constellation, or are all these years stargazing just for show?”
“I actually do know.” One. I mentally reveal. He doesn’t have to know that. I roll my eyes and speak in annoyance.
“Ursa Major was the first one I found.” I say, my eyes traveling to the said constellation.
“I don’t know where it is. It is one of the very, very few things that Jake West is bad at. Finding constellations.”
“That and referring to himself in the third person.” I roll my eyes. “It’s over there.” I point.
“I can’t see it.” I face palm. “Wait a minute.” His head leans over mine and turns to the sky, expecting to see from my point of view. “Where is it?” He asks. I point again. “Aha! Found it!” But the excitement was too much because he fell over me.
“Urgh!” I groan. He is heavy as hell.
Maybe it is because of the muscles.
God, Madelaine, just shut up.
“Could you do me the favor of getting off me?”
He sees my annoyed face and states, “Umm… Don’t know Brown. You
are
very comfortable.” I roll my eyes.
“You know what? I’m not going to argue. I was already planning on sleeping here tonight.”
“Then I’ll stay too.” He informs, getting off me. That’s better. Wait,
what?
“Oh no, you won’t! Didn’t you hear that I find the art of stargazing calm? You definitely don’t calm me down.”
“I know I make you excited, Brown, but you didn’t have to make it
that
obvious.” He smirks, winking at me. I blush and sigh in exhaustion.
And then I take one look at the stars, get lost in the sky, and fall asleep.
OceanofPDF.com

16
Brown and West, Sitting On a Tree…
I wake up with the sound of voices. I open my eyes and… I’m embraced with Jake!? How are we cuddling? And why did I get to be the little spoon?
Then I see that the voices came from Riden and Allison. I get out of Jake’s arms and smack him.
“What the hell, Brown!” I send him a pointed look, and he sees that we have company.
“Oops, caught in the act.” He smirks, and I punch him, hard, on the arm. “Ow!”
“Isn’t it a lovely afternoon?” Allison asks.
“Oh yes, it is.” Riden responds.
I sit on the blanket.
“What do you mean
afternoon?
What time is it?” I ask, half asleep and rubbing my eyes. I admit, it was the nicest sleep I’ve had in a long time.
“Only 2 PM.” She responds relaxed.
“I need food.” I say.
Glad that on weekends we don’t have a shift in the library, or else we would be late.
“Your dad is already cooking, so come on, get up!” She says, putting her arms in front of me to help me get up. Meanwhile, Jake is already up and talking to Riden. The latter speaks.
“What the hell were you talking about yesterday, Mads? Come on, don’t be shy. Tell us the whole story.” He grins, and Allison is looking at me and Jake, ready for an explanation.
“I don’t know why, it just came out of my mouth!”
“Yeah, right.” Allison speaks.
“It’s true! And we decided to keep this until Amanda wants him back. Until then-”
“She’ll have the privilege to be my girlfriend.”
“
Fake
girlfriend.”
“Whatever.” He responds as if it’s the same thing. Maybe for him, but not for me. For him, it would be one of the many relationships he has. Yes, because he has
a lot
of them. When he and Amanda break up, he goes back to the city, as do we, and goes to school,
our
school, where girls fall at his feet, and he dates one per week, and that’s an understatement.
“Wait! My dad. He must be worried!” I remember. I didn’t tell him that I had gotten home yesterday, and I didn’t even leave a message.
“About that.” Allison grins.
“I got up with your dad asking where you were, and I didn’t know, so I called Riden to ask if he had seen you two. He said that he hadn’t, and Jake’s parents were also worried. While we were still on the phone, I remembered to go to the clothesline, and your dad followed. And then-”
“Oh my dear god! He saw us like this?!” I frantically ask.
“Yep, but he wasn’t the only one! I was still on the phone with Riden and told him I had found you and said to him and Jake’s parents to go to the balcony and-”
“The Wests saw us like this?!”
“Oh yes.” Riden is the one talking now. “Then all the parents disappeared, and I came to meet Allison here, took a few selfies and photos, and then you woke up.”
Of course, they took photos. They are gonna
haunt
me to my dying breath.
I walk to the kitchen with all of them following.
“Good afternoon dad!” I say.
“Look who decided to show up! No note, no warning! You scared me, Maddie!” He scolds. “And when I do find you, you are very,
very
close to Jake West.” He may be scolding me, but I can see a smile starting to appear. I just can’t with this family. Has he finally gone crazy?
“Why are you smiling?” I question.
“I tried to be mad at you, but my little girl finally has a boyfriend.” He sighs. “I was starting to get worried that you wouldn’t have the experience, since you were always in here with your sister and me, and you were always with your nose in books and you didn’t sociali-”
“Okay dad. I get it.”
He isn’t wrong, though, and I don’t blame him for thinking, and I know he did, that I was going to stay single until I finished college, or until I’m 30. I guess I love to think about it and read about it and see it, but I don’t have the patience to be in a relationship.
The teenagers start to laugh at my dad’s comments.
“And you three, stop laughing!” I glare at them.
“Where’s the food?” I ask, annoyed, and hug my dad.
“The food is on the table, and I made it for all of you. I already ate.” He presses a kiss into my head, then I let go of him, and he gets out of the kitchen.
I sit at the table, not waiting for them, and start to eat with my usual manners. They then sit around the table, and Allison is currently face-palming, Riden is shaking his head, eyes wide open, probably still not believing that I eat like this, and Jake is used to it, so he casually speaks with an annoyed face.
“Have you ever considered, I don’t know, maybe being civil?”
“And have you ever considered not talking?” I reply.
Allison finally intervenes.
“You two stop with the bickering, and Riden, stop staring at Mads’s manners. I think this plan’s crazy, but it could work. I’m dying to see Mads being all softie with Jake.” She grins, probably imagining me being a sweetheart with the one and only Jake West.
I
don’t know how I am going to do it. I’ve never been a soft, caring person at all. I hate hugs and kisses and handholding. I’m a bitter, loveless old lady, I’m aware.
“Oh shut up. I can do it!” I defend.
I can perfectly fake my disgusted face every time I have to touch Jake. I’m a good liar when I want to. Usually, I’m too
lazy
to be a good liar, but I’ve already tricked many people, and they never suspected it. That’s why Allison thinks I can’t do it. Because I never bothered to really lie to her, so I always failed. But this time I won’t be lazy. I just have to get used to it, that’s it.
“Yeah, right. Seeing is believing.”
I finish eating, ignoring Allison.
“Anyways, we have to start practising the song for the fair.”
“We haven’t even signed up yet!” He informs whining. Wait, we didn’t?
“Then we go after you eat.” I say, somehow progressively more annoyed.
The food on his plate lasts five minutes, and then we leave home.
We’re already out of the gate when Jake turns to me and asks, “May I hold your hand,
honey
?”
“Yes…” I say unsure and more preoccupied with the hands, to ever call him out for the nickname. When his hand grabs mine, I flinch a little at the sudden touch. Deal with it, Madelaine.
“You okay?” He asks, surely noticing.
“I’m just not a big fan of physical touch.”
I hate all types of physical touch,
definitely
not my love language. I mean I like to give hugs, but that only happens when I’m excited or need comfort.
“Now that you’re my girlfriend, you better get used to it, because there will be a lot.” He jokes, but I, being me, take it personally.
“Whoa, easy there. There is
not
going to be that much.” Pause. “Hand holding and…” Do I really have to say it?
Fine
. “Hugs,” I make a disgusted face, “are allowed, but that’s all you’ll get.”
“I don’t really have a choice, do I?”
“Oh no, you always have a choice,
honey
, we just want to make it believable, don’t we?”
“I can’t believe I underestimated your blackmail abilities. Okay, fine. But don’t you think people are going to be suspicious if the famous Jake West doesn’t kiss his girlfriend?” He has a point, but I’m not going to tell him he’s right. Instead, I respond,
“You’re right, they will find it suspicious if the town’s whore isn’t putting his tongue down my throat…” He fake-laughs, which makes me smile. “You can only kiss me if it’s really,
really
necessary. Like if someone questions our relationship. Deal?”
“Deal.”
Silence takes hold of us, but not for long, because my thoughts burst through my mouth.
“This is
so
weird.” I state, lifting our hands.
“I know. I couldn’t stop thinking about it last night.” He sighs in agreement.
“Ah, always thinking of me, aren’t you
sweet
…” I joke, pinching his cheek like I’m sure his grandma does, and he slaps my hands away.
“Stop that.” He speaks, rubbing his cheek like I’m contagious, annoyed.
“Oh, how the tables have turned.” I happily grin, and he rolls his eyes.
I love seeing him like this.
Love is a strong word to be associated with him.
Let’s take a deep breath and rethink our words of choice. I
enjoy
seeing him like this.
We continue our conversation, each one of us defending our positions until we reach the town board. The flyer states that the person responsible for signing up is… Linda! Good. With Jake’s hand still holding mine, I drag him to the ice cream place.
“Good afternoon, Linda!” I greet.
The second she sees me, she speeds to me and presses her palm to my forehead.
“What do you think you’re doing?”
“Madelaine Brown, are you sick? Fever? Headache? Anything?”
I don’t see where this is going, and I’m not sure I want to.
“Are you crazy? I’m fine!”
Her mouth opens to a big, mocking smile. “I heard you were dating Jake West and thought you were sick.” She removes her hand from my head and continues. “I mean, when I first heard
you
were dating
him
, I thought I was hallucinating!”
“Me too.” Jake responds, a traumatized look on his face.
I hit him on the arm and then turn to her.
“Stop exaggerating, Linda.”
“No, no, no. All those nights I babysat you two, and there was screaming and fighting and sometimes hitting, which led to
this
. That’s a fucking good plot twist if I’ve ever seen one.”
“We’re here to sign up for the talent show at the fair.” I sigh.
“You know, punching each other and being mean doesn’t actually count as a talent?” Linda jokes, and I roll my eyes.
“We’re going to
sing
.”
“Right.” She comes back to reality. “Wait, you two sing? You can be together on the same stage
without security?
”
“Actually, yes.”
“Okay. This year’s talent show is going to be sent from hell, great!”
“
Bye
, Linda.”
“You and he can’t possibly be dating.” She says, more to herself.
For god’s sake…
“Kiss.”
“I’m sorry,
what?!
” Okay, maybe I was too loud because people are staring.
“If you think you’re ready, Linda, then alright. I think you should close your eyes now, ‘cause I’m about to kiss my woman and I was never much of a gentleman anyway…” He smirks devilishly at me, and I start panicking as he starts coming closer to my face. Holy
shit
, I’m not ready! And what am I supposed to do?! I’ve never kissed anyone! I don’t know how- Or what-
His lips touch mine, and soon enough, he’s keeping his reputation alive. Without me even knowing how, he grabs my waist and opens both our mouths, and his tongue slides in. I think I’m about to combust right here in the middle of the ice cream shop. This is actually not that bad… I’m not even doing-
Oh wow
, I did not know you could do that… I’m glad he’s holding me, because from the moment I closed my eyes, I think my knees went pathetically weak. His fingers bury themselves in
my hair, and I allow myself to do the same. Everything just
fits.
It’s like a slow dance, and we’re synchronized in a way I didn’t even know was possible. He breaks apart only to jump back in, but not without laying one soft, tantalizing kiss on my bottom lip.
He really is that good…
I don’t know where I am. All I know is that we couldn’t be any closer than we are, and somehow I want to find a way. To
merge
, to keep doing this
forever
-
“Jesus, STOP!
This is a family place!
” Linda breaks us apart, mouth wide open in shock.
I’m left staring at the ground, seeing stars, and wondering if I’m going crazy.
This had to be a fever dream…
Linda hurries behind the counter and passes me a glass of water.
“Are you okay, Maddie? You seem like you’re about to faint.”
“Well, I know my job is well done when I can take away her breath like that.”
I don’t know why, but rage fills my body within seconds, and without thinking, I step on his foot, harshly.
He flinches and groans, and I take those few extra seconds to compose myself.
“Now that seems more like it…” Linda acknowledges that while I’m over here,
freaking out.
Keep your goddamn shit together, Madelaine.
I sip what’s left of water and place the cup on the counter.
“I’m sorry, Linda, if you don’t mind, I need to take my breathtaking boyfriend outside.”
She just nods, and I drag him out.
Once we’re far enough, I push him away.
“Are you crazy?!” I shout, and he frowns. “What happened to a good old peck?! Is that forbidden now?!” I am losing my shit over here. It seems ridiculous, but I’m a seventeen-year-old who hasn’t been kissed, and I thought… Well, I thought that if it was
only a peck, it wouldn’t count, and whoever I got to kiss for the first time, it would be
real
. And special.
“You said we could kiss if someone doubted it, so I did!” He responds, equally confused.
“Oh
no
, THAT was not a kiss! That was-” Something that took me to another world
completely.
“It was what?” West shoves his hands in his pockets, waiting for me to finish while glaring at me.
“I don’t know, okay! But it felt
illegal
!” I shout aimlessly, feeling a bit childish.
“Well, I don’t know who you’ve been kissing, but that felt normal to me.” He shrugs, and I open my mouth, shocked.
That didn’t feel normal to me; that’s why I’m getting so worked up. To him, it’s just another Tuesday, to me…… Well, I can’t even name what it meant. It shouldn’t have meant anything.
I feel my eyes burning, and I turn away from him.
“I’m not feeling well, I’ll see you tomorrow.” And without even giving him room to, I take a turn into our street and speed home.
When I get into the garden, Allison, who was wrestling with Riden in the pool, catches one glimpse of me and stops what she’s doing right away.
I brush past my dad in the kitchen, and he doesn’t notice anything. Good.
As soon as I find my bed, I throw myself on top of it, as if the world ended. I know it didn’t, but this was something important to me, and now I don’t know what to make of it.
Allison comes in two minutes later, hair dripping all over the floor.
“Mads, what happened?” She sits on the edge of my bed, and I get up and turn around, leaning back against the headboard.
“West- He…” I look into the distance, and a wave of reminiscing hits me right in the face.
“He what? Did he hurt you? Force you to do anything? Was he a jerk? Do I need to go over there and-”
“He kissed me…” I mutter, finally looking at her.
“He
what?!
” Her mouth hangs wide open, and I cover my face.
“He kissed me!” And then I start crying, and she looks at me funny.
“Was it that bad?” She puts her hand on my shoulder.
“No! It was-” Mind-blowing, world-changing, revolutionary even. “
Good
.” I whisper as if I’m saying something forbidden.
“I’m sorry, now you lost me. You just kissed Jake West, and according to you, it was
good,
so why are you crying?” Then her devilish smile takes hold of her face. “Oh, I get it. It’s difficult to hate him when he’s performing tricks in your mouth, now is it?”
I throw a pillow at her, and she laughs even louder.
“Allison! It’s not that, it’s just- I’ve never been kissed before, and I always thought that it would be special, not
fake
.” Pause. “To be with someone I liked who liked me back. Not someone who can’t stand me the same as I can’t stand him…”
“Are you being serious right now?” I respond with a confused expression, and she continues. “He has wanted you for years. He flirts with you all the time, he makes out with girls in front of you-”
“How romantic of him…” I sarcastically say.
“And somehow, always ends up by your side in every situation. Besides, I heard he punched Blade Topper in the face because of you…” She bites her lower lip, excited, and I frown, astonished.
“He
what?!
You know what, it doesn’t matter, because he doesn’t like me. He likes that I’m not into him. The moment that
switches, he switches too.” I shrug carelessly after telling the tale as old as time.
If there’s one thing Jake West lives for, it’s the thrill of the chase. Particularly to do something stupid as riding a bike, jumping from Mailview’s high board while drunk, getting into some fights — apparently — and so on.
I know the only reason he keeps bothering me after all these years is that I couldn’t give a shit about him, and that strikes some nerve within him that he can’t contradict even if he wanted to.
“I just- Didn’t expect my first kiss to be with him, which is stupid because I’m the one who told him to kiss me if someone doubted our relationship. I just didn’t expect it to be so-“
“Heavenly? Miraculous? Hot?” She wiggles her eyebrows at that, and I grab another pillow.
“No, I’m just trying to deal with it, my own way.”
She smiles tightly and then hugs me.
“I know you struggle to see it as a good thing, but in my point of view, you got the greatest first kiss any girl that has ever laid eyes on that boy could wish for.”
But am I one of those girls?
* * *
Evil Spawn
Evil Spawn:
how are u doin?
I look at the text and wonder if I should respond. My finger slides, and
shit
, I marked it as read. Oh, who am I kidding? I don’t wanna deal with this. I turn off my phone and close my eyes again.
The sleeping pill is taking its time to take effect…
Evil Spawn: really? ignoring me?
I roll my eyes at the phone and turn it off once more. I get another notification, and within seconds, I hear screaming from outside.
What the hell?
I move to the window and open it, and
Oh my god…
“You just have this effect on me! I wanted to say this for years! I’m desperately in love with you, Madelaine! I just can’t take it anymore!” He pretends to stab his heart, and someone from the house next to mine opens their window and curses him out. He apologizes with his hands and then
continues
.
“Madelaine, love of my life, please talk to me, I’m going crazy!” He proclaims, waking more people up.
“
Would you shut up?!
I’m going, just please, for the love of god,
shut up
.” I order, and he smirks and zips his lips.
Oh, I hate him.
Thank god Allison could sleep through a hurricane because she didn’t wake up, so I silently put on my flip flops and go downstairs. I take about two minutes to reach him, grinning at me through the other side of the gate.
“
Are you out of your mind?
” I whisper-yell as I unlock the gate.
“You weren’t responding, so I had to take action.” He shrugs as if he didn’t wake up half the street.
“What do you want?” I cross my arms, letting him in. I close the gate, and he waits until I’m finished and walk to the garden.
“Look, if this scheme is going to work, we’re going to need to be honest with each other. So, before I ask you anything, do you still wanna do this?” He asks, hands in his pockets, and I look up to the sky, as if the answer is written in the stars.
As much as I don’t like the idea of us together, I have to admit it hasn’t been that bad. I could really see an interesting summer ahead of me and all due to his craziness, so…
“I’m still in.” I sigh, and he presses his lips.
“Okay, so, we have to be honest.” Pause. “Earlier, in the ice cream shop…” My eyes catch his in the darkness of the night, and I hope they don’t let the panic I’m feeling right now show. “That was your first kiss, wasn’t it?”
His eyes bear into mine, and my heart speeds.
“Why are you saying that? Are you saying I’m a bad kisser? Because-”
“Hey, relax, I’m not saying anything. Besides,” His smirk makes its star apparition. “You’re one hell of a kisser, Brown. But let’s not deviate from the question.”
I look at the ground and avoid cringing. This is it. This is the lowest I’ve ever been.
“Yes.” I mutter, kind of ashamed.
I glance at him, and he nods.
“I’m sorry. If I knew, I wouldn’t- Have exaggerated like I did.” He tried to put a great apology together. “I should have realized you weren’t comfortable. So, from now on, no more kissing. If someone questions our relationship, they will have to go through me.”
I nod, my throat squeezing at his sincerity.
“If we’re being honest, technically I did give you permission to do that, so it’s my fault really.” I look everywhere but at him.
“How about we agree that we should have communicated better?” He smiles, and even in the dark, I can make out his laugh lines so well. Too well.
“We really do suck at communicating, don’t we?” I find myself smiling, too.
For a few moments, we can only hear crickets and dogs barking in the distance. The sky is clear, and the air is refreshing for a summer night.
“I’m going to uh, stargaze.”
“Trouble sleeping?”
“Yeah, actually.”
Silent falls again, and
why am I nervous?
Am I being rude if I don’t invite him to stay?
“I guess I should be going.”
“Yeah…”
He nods and brushes past me, but before I can change my mind, I stop him.
“Wait!” Pause. “I think you should stay here. For a little. Because of
Mrs. Anderson.
If she catches you in the street after the stunt you pulled…”
“Uh
-huh
, I see…” He turns around, bemused, and I roll my eyes.
“Don’t let it go to your head, I’m just being nice, enjoy it while it lasts.” I roll my eyes, and he smiles.
“Oh, babe, but I love you either way, whether you’re nice or angry with me.”
I leave him behind, already regretting this decision by the minute.
“Wait, I’m kidding!” He runs a little to catch up with me. “I just didn’t know you had goodness in your frozen heart- That’s it, final joke.” He closes his mouth, that ever-permanent smirk stapled on his mouth.
I sigh, and for a while, everything is peaceful.
I find a spot on the grass and lie down, and he does so too.
“Are you being nice to me because I did that thing with my tongue?” He looks like he’s about to burst out laughing.
I punch his arm, shocked he would joke about it.
“
Ow!
Too soon?”
“Too soon.” Pause. “Jerk.”
And then he finally gives in and laughs, and to be honest, I have to control everything in me not to join.
OceanofPDF.com

17
Crazy Jared Kind Of Has a Point
Someone’s touching my face. I open my eyes to clarity and birds chirping, and-
Is this a foot?!
“West!” I yell without even looking and push his foot away. I stand up, and West bursts out laughing. “Oh,
I’m gonna vomit.
” I place a hand in front of my mouth and feel a reflux in the bottom of my stomach. I breathe in through my nose a few times and then slowly get off the grass. “You’re disgusting.”
“And you are up before 9 AM, which is a miracle I performed.” He rests his hands on his hips, proud, and I snap out of it.
“What?!” I grab my phone and-
8:22 AM?! “
You know, I didn’t know it was possible to hate you more than I already did, but somehow, you also performed that miracle
.”
“
Shut up, will you? I’m helping you
.”
I frown at him, and he rolls his eyes. “With your stupid list, remember? That was the deal. You dated me, and I helped you get a life.”
I throw my flip-flop at him, and he dodges it effortlessly like he gets thrown flip-flops on a daily basis.
“I have a life…” I mutter, sleep-deprived and hangry.
“Here, eat this before you become more spiteful.” He passes me bread with slices of cheese, and I’m a little speechless. “Don’t read into it. You were always disgusting with the amount of cheese you put on everything.”
Is he a mind reader?
I take a small and suspicious bite of the bread.
No signs of poisoning…
“Thanks.” I redirect my eyes forward. “So what am I supposed to do now?” I look around, images of my garden I’ve never seen before. The sun is low on the horizon, and its weak rays are touching the back of my house. There’s something soothing about it. Quiet.
“Whatever we want.” He paces forward and reaches to open the gate.
“I don’t remember including you in my plans.” I cross my arms, and his twisted smirk makes its first appearance of the day.
“We’ve slept together twice. I think we’re past excluding each other from simple morning walks .”
“
We
fell
asleep
next to each other twice, because that penny you threw in the well finally took effect and made your wish come true.”
“You’re getting more creative each time. And believe me, if anyone wished upon a star, it was you.”
“Excuse me,
what
?” I choke myself from the absurdity of his statement.
“Don’t you think I know all your hatred and rolling of the eyes is just you trying not to fall deeper for me than you already have?”
“You know what, I’m actually starting to believe you were dropped as a baby.
Repeatedly
.”
The air is chillier than every other day I’ve woken up in this land. The streets are partially empty, businesses are opening, and mainly older people holding their paper waiting to sit outside the establishments.
“Yes, because I was the one who had to be locked away for throwing a tantrum every other day.”
“See?! How can you even suggest that I am falling for you?” I point out, and somehow I said something wrong.
“Wow, that really affected you… I was just joking, Brown, but if anything, I wouldn’t be opposed, you know that.” His dimples show up, and I feel my cheeks heat.
“You know I’m too smart to be seduced by you.”
“That’s why I like you.”
My heart nearly stops. I know he didn’t mean
like me
like me, but still, we didn’t openly admit this. Ever. We
stand
each other. We’re
obliged
to hang out because our dads are inseparable, but we don’t
like
each other. I thought we forgot how nice we were to each other yesterday. I mean, come on, I woke up with his foot on my face. Am I reading something wrong or what?
I stare at the ground, trying to gain a sense of the fact I’m awake, and a yawn stretches my mouth to its widest. I glance sideways at a bird chirping in a young tree planted near the main square, along with several others, to encourage green spaces in our town. The air seems different as it reaches my lungs. I hate to admit it, but besides the fact that I’m dying a bit and my brain is not making sense of anything all that much, being awake this early is quite- Beautiful. Refreshing. I take a deep breath in, something I struggle with a lot, and that, according to my therapist, is due to anxiety. That’s why I’m always yawning. Because I’m trying to fill my lungs as much as I can and feel like I took that
one perfect breath
.
“Huh. I didn’t know crazy Jared woke up this early…” I comment, talking about the town’s lunatic who, actually, funnily enough, teaches…
Yoga
…
“Did you make an appointment with crazy Jared for me to do yoga?” I ask. I must be imagining things, right?
“Of course not.” Jake dismisses, and I let a big breath out.
“Good… Imagine my first time doing yoga is with crazy Jared, ha! That would be…” Jake runs a bit to greet Jared. “…hilarious.”
“Madelaine! Namasté.” He bows, and I bow a bit instinctively. And because I’m a little bit afraid he’s going to invoke some kind of demon on me. “Are you ready?”
I nod tightly and look behind me at West.
“You lied!” I whisper in his face, and he bounces his head as if there’s a blurry line between lying and whatever it was that he said to me.
“Oh, you’re welcome, honey!” He places his arm around me stiffly. “I knew you’d love it.”
Jared claps and gestures to three mats in the middle of the park, and my eye starts twitching.
“West,
did you sign us up for couples’ yoga?!
” I speak sideways so Jared won’t hear me.
“What? Of course not-”
“I find your love so refreshing that I couldn’t believe it when Jacob signed you up for couples’ yoga.” Jared says while putting up his red hair in a ponytail.
“Okay, technically I did, but you have to stay because crazy Jared
will
call his friends on the other side if you leave.” West mutters back, and my head nods side to side in disapproval of, well,
him
.
“
Whoa
, guys, I’m sensing some tension. Is everything okay?”
“Oh, you know, Madelaine, her head is always working and analyzing everything.”
I’m pretty sure I look like I’m having a stroke.
Jared grabs West’s hand, calmly, and places his other hand on his heart.
“You’re such a good partner, Jacob, I hope you know that.”
“I really am, aren’t I?” He smiles contentedly, and I just shake my head.
“I’m sorry, Jared, but this one didn’t warn me about this, so I’m not even dressed, and I would hate to waste your time. Maybe another day-”
This time, he grabs my hand and places it together with West’s in both his hands.
“Your honeypot is right, Madelaine, you think too much. Spontaneity only treats you right. You should be grateful you have such an attentive partner to your needs.”
“So lucky…” I mutter as he drops our hands — and I slap Jake’s away from mine — and leads us towards the mats. West only smiles like a dumbass at me.
“I thought we could start with the Superman pose today.” Jared points to our mats, and West and I look at each other, confused.
“Superman? We don’t know that one…”
“No problem. It’s when one partner lies on the ground and holds the other’s body over theirs.”
“I’m sorry, Jared, I thought we were doing regular yoga, like you know, separate but by each other’s side.” West clears his throat, clearly thrown off his game.
“I’m afraid there’s been a misunderstanding. Couples’ yoga involves the two people working together, in order to bring balance and harmony to each other.”
I
lose it
.
“
Please!
That’s- That’s-
Oh my god-
Peace?” I laugh, my stomach muscles giving out from how much I’m laughing. “I can’t breathe!” I laugh some more and then some more when
I glance at West’s desolated face, realization dawning on him. “Oh my god, I’m crying… You’re so
stupid
…” I wipe my eyes and sit on my mat, while the idiot to my left reluctantly sits on his. “Honey.” I add after Jared looks suspiciously at me.
“You’re stupid.” West throws childishly at me.
Jared instructs West to lie down, and I place his feet on my hips, ready for him to lift me.
“This is all about trust, so Jacob, extend your hand to Madelaine, and when you’re ready, lift her.”
Our hands touch, and I squeeze his a little bit, clearly a bit afraid.
He nods subtly as if saying he won’t let me fall.
His legs lift me, and I’m a little bit imbalanced at first, but then it’s like we’re those gymnasts who synchronize perfectly. And for a few seconds, I didn’t think too much of anything. West is annoying, but he is right. I’m always thinking. Always trying to figure out everything around me, people’s next moves, but right now, I’m just
existing
, if that makes sense. I don’t think I’ve ever felt so peaceful these last few years as I’m feeling right now. And I take it. That big, perfect breath, even though West’s feet are pressing against my stomach. I open my eyes and look down at him, and it seems I caught him off guard because he’s lightly smiling.
“Amazing, chemistry, you guys. I’m glad you found each other. You can see how much you love one another.”
“What-” And I’m thrown off balance, and so is West, because as soon as I know, I’m landing face-first into his stomach. He winces in pain, and
how in the hell is his stomach this hard?
OW.
“Why would you drop me?!”
“Hey, you moved first!”
* * *
“Forehead to forehead. Yes, that’s right, close your eyes.” This past hour has been going strangely. We fight and reunite. And then realize we’re being nice and harmonious and fight again. But it’s like Crazy Jared won’t take that for an ending, so he’s making us do this one last exercise where we talk nicely about each other, you know, to leave with positive vibes and all, while touching our foreheads and closing our eyes.
“Madelaine-” West starts, but Jared interrupts him.
“No, Madelaine has to go first. It’s important she lets go of her pride and goes first.” I glance quickly at Jared, and he’s dead serious.
“Oh- Okay, uhm, West-”
“Jacob.” Jared corrects me.
“Jake, I…” I hate this. I feel weak, which is somehow worse, because I shouldn’t feel weak when talking nicely about a, well, good person. I know I make him my personal punching bag, but he responds equally. It’s a fucked up partnership in a way, but I also hate to admit that I’m always the one who insults first. And it hurts me even more to give my power up. “I admire your positivity even when I cross the line and say hurtful things to you.” I take a big breath. “Actually, I admire your positivity towards life in general, I-I wish I had more of that.” I rip it off like a bandage.
I hate how I know he’s looking at me right now. And the fact that this stupid forehead thing is actually working.
“Jacob, your turn.”
“Madelaine, despite the fact you can be cold-hearted and closed off-”
“Of course…” I whisper to him. He can’t take anything seriously in his life, not even when I feel this naked emotionally.
“I admire your strength and how, despite everything you went through, you still endure. You’re still a good friend to Allison, a good older sister to Lindsey, and a good daughter to John. There aren’t many people who would still be standing, and even though I called you cold-hearted, I think you’re warm-blooded. Someone who had to shut down like you did, still caring that deeply about so many things, is astonishing to me. You, uh, underestimate yourself.” He clears his throat, and I’m so glad our eyes are closed because I’m one second away from ugly crying.
From the sounds coming out of Jared’s mouth, I’m assuming we got to him.
“That was so beautiful, guys. I feel like you grew so much throughout this past hour and a half, and I’m proud. Okay,
calm down, Jared, you’re doing too much. This is why they call you crazy
. Slowly, you can open your eyes and unglue your foreheads.”
I wipe my face down quickly before we both open our eyes and get away from each other as soon as possible.
“Namasté. Until I see you again.” And then he grabs his mat and just walks away from us.
We’re left staring at each other.
“I still hate you.” I look around, avoiding his eyes.
“Yeah, same.” We get up quickly and assume we leave the mats behind.
We walk side to side when his phone buzzes.
“Oh shit. My mom says she just saw us in the park and wants you to have dinner at ours tonight.” He can barely look at me, which relieves me, too.
“I have to lie to Emily…” I stare at the end of the road, my stomach eating me from the inside out.
“I don’t know
why
she’s insisting, she
knows
you, I’m just gonna tell her-”
“No, leave it. You lied to my dad, too, so it’s only fair I pretend for you. See you tonight.”
And without a warning, I walk faster in front of him, my organs recoiling from guilt. Emily was the closest thing I had to a mother. She comforted me when I cried, and she was there to instruct me on my first period. She bought me all the books I’ve read and told me never to give up on my romantic side. She gave me more advice than my dad ever could, and she always made sure to be there for me. She would take Lindsey and me out to ice cream on Mother’s Day so we wouldn’t feel so bad. So yeah, it’s killing me that I have to lie to her. But my dad was lied to, too, so one way or another, this is happening.
My phone buzzes in my back pocket as soon as I walk inside the house.
Evil Spawn:
If my mom finds out, she’ll find it hilarious
Evil Spawn: I gave her worse heart attacks than you could ever
I exhale.
Me:
You’re right, it’s almost too easy being her favorite
Come on, be mean back…
Evil Spawn: Please, you’re nothing but a kissass
Evil Spawn: I came out of her
Me: And she regrets it every day I’m sure
Evil Spawn: ok she-devil
Evil Spawn: Oh and try wearing something other than those godawful tshirts, put in effort for once
I smile down at my phone.
We’re good…
“Wow, that’s some weird ass kink.” Allison scares me,
looking over my shoulder at our texts, making my heart almost drop.
“Shut up.” I shove my phone into my pocket.
“Hey, at least you match each other’s freak.”
“
Allison…
”
“What? I’m just saying, your wedding vows will be
delightful
.”
OceanofPDF.com

18
Dinner With The In-Laws
It’s Emily and Joey. I’ve known them my whole life. They’ve seen me biting their son, crying, and they even drove me to my therapist’s once in a while when my dad couldn’t. Besides, I’m practically a pro at hiding my feelings for the past eight years, so I can absolutely lie to their faces. Then why is my head pressed against their gate and banging
repeatedly?
“
Come on
.” West’s voice invades my brain, and I just keep banging my head, close to pouting and still avoiding coming in, even when he opens the gate. “You know, banging your head like that doesn’t make you smart.”
“I’m not even gonna argue because the fact that I got myself into this situation only proves that I am, in fact, stupid.”
He grabs my arm and pulls me inside, dragging me along to his kitchen door.
“Game faces on, Brown. This
will be
the performance of a lifetime.” He grabs both my shoulders, and I roll my eyes.
“
Okay
,
Christopher Nolan
.” I mutter beneath my breath, and he opens the door.
The kitchen is chillier than it should be for the summer heat that is taking over this village. A shiver runs down my body the second Emily takes something out of the oven.
“Cold?” West asks, and I nod. “That must suck.” He snickers like a little child, and before I have the chance to even slap his arm, his mom beats me to it.
“Give her your jumper, you tosser!” Emily slaps the back of his head harshly, and he winces, then begrudgingly moves to the nearby wooden chair where his sweater lies and passes it to me.
I accept it, and
oh my god,
this is the softest fabric my fingers have ever touched… I hurry to put it on, and his minty and forest scent invades my brain like some type of drug. I close my eyes for half a second, completely thrown off by what appears to be some type of fog clogging my judgment.
“
You’re so obsessed with me…
” West whispers in my ear, and another shiver,
a different shiver,
runs down my entire body.
“What?
Gross
.” And I
lightly
push him aside, considering his mom is watching.
“I always knew this would happen…” She stares at us while adding some type of condiment on top of the very well-cooked chicken legs. “It was
inevitable
. Besides, I couldn’t fathom another girl being my daughter-in-law. They wouldn’t be you, Maddie, and they wouldn’t push Jacob to his maximum, that’s for sure.” She points the silverware at us, and my heart is rapidly beating.
I’m not particularly enjoying this conversation
.
“They sure wouldn’t be.” West gulps beside me, and then his joker façade is back on. “They wouldn’t annoy me so much, that’s for sure.”
“Jacob Louis West, you insult your girlfriend-
No
, not your girlfriend, our Maddie, one more time, and I swear to god, I will smack the rudeness out of you.” She glares at him, and it’s like
a warm blanket fell on top of me, comforting me. She’s too kind. Too important for me to do this to her. My dad is, too, but she stepped up when she didn’t have to, you know? It’s like I owe her extra or something…
“Jesus, Mom, this is how we flirt, it’s almost embarrassing how you know nothing about modern dating…” He jokingly throws back, and she shakes her head, daring him to do it again.
“What’s embarrassing is your behavior and the fact that you still wear Superman underpants. Now lead her to the dining room, if you will?”
I lightly smile at that, and then his fingers brush my back, pushing me towards the dining room.
Alana walks in, bag in hand, seemingly heading out.
“Where are you going?” I ask, and it came out too panicky.
“Uhh, dinner. At your house. Why?” She levels me with that early teen stare as if I’m stupid or something. I swallow my worries.
“You’re not staying? So it’s just gonna be me, your brother, and- and your parents?”
“
Yeah
… My sincere apologies.” She lays her hand on mine as if she understands she lives in a house full of nutters and then
bounces
.
“
And
you’re panicking…”
“Your sister is not gonna be here to be our buffer! Of course I’m panicking! Oh my god, I don’t know if I can do this- I never met someone’s parents before!
What if they don’t like me?”
“You mean the people who changed your diapers and went to our godawful school recitals?”
I grab his collar, manic eyes, I’m sure.
“As your girlfriend? What if I’m not everything I’m made out to be?” I stare at the ground, insecurity filling my every sense, and my anxiety.
“Brown, for better or for worse, trust me, you are everything and anything you are made out to be.” I look up to his daring eyes, and it’s like they can see right through me. Through my bullshit, through my doubting, through my deepest fears, and through my truest soul. Through
me
.
I nod tightly, but still, throughout half of this dinner, I feel like a ghost. I’m there. I nod and here and there, but don’t say more than four words. It’s like my brain is muffling everything around me. I laugh when I’m supposed to and stay serious when approaching earnest topics, but that’s it. Until… The story is told. The one thing that can wake me up from the dead.
I look up to Joey and Emily’s adoring eyes towards each other, and my heart squeezes.
“They think telling this story over and over reinforces their love.” West complains, but I just listen intently. “Brown?” He nudges me, and I snap out of it. “You’re not pretending to be shocked that I know how to use reinforced in a sentence?”
But I choose to ignore it and listen to the married couple in front of me.
“She thought I was British because I was faking a flawless accent, and throughout the night we would find Americans and make fun of them for being so dumb.” Emily cringes at that, like it happened yesterday, and Joey just shakes his head, proud he pulled off an English accent. “And somehow I got her number, and next thing she knows she’s meeting me in a coffee shop in New Castle. When she comes up to me, I start speaking like I always spoke, strong Jersey accent on me, and you should have seen her face-” Joey is laughing too much to even finish his sentence, and Emily is covering her face, red as ever.
“I was mortified! I couldn’t believe it, I had been trashing his country and its people for a whole night, and he was just smiling up at me like that didn’t matter.”
I’m pretty sure my eyes are glistening like I’m reading one of my unattainable romance novels. I’m mesmerized by their story. Of course, my dad had told me before, but it’s different seeing it told in person. Their reactions, their body language, and their
love
. There’s nothing quite like it.
“Only took about a hundred flights to the UK and one tense dinner with her parents to put a ring on her finger.” He kisses her hand, and she suppresses the biggest smile ever. “And then we expelled Jake here from our love to the world…” They look passionately at each other, and Jake is shocked.
“Don’t say it like that!
Jesus
… Weirdos.” He shakes his head, and I’m sure that even though he’s disgusted on the outside, inside, he’s happy and comforted by their love. In a way, you could say I’m a Jakeolist. I can see his bullshit from a mile away. I can tell when he’s lying or when he’s genuinely happy. Or sad. He’s rarely angry, which is odd, too.
“
As if there aren’t many girls who are happy your parents didn’t sleep that night…
” It leaves my mouth before I can help it, and then I’m the one who is absolutely
mortified
. I DID NOT JUST SAY THAT. WHAT THE HELL?!
They all look at me, eyes wide and mouths slightly open, until Joey bursts out laughing and Emily along.
“I’m so sorry, I-I don’t know what took over me, I-” They just keep on laughing, and their happiness is contagious, so soon enough I’m smiling too. I glance at Jake, and he’s watching me intently, with a slight smirk on his face.
I ignore it, his stare. Too intense and
fake
for me to care for it.
The rest of dinner goes by in no time, and when Joey gets up to take everyone’s dishes to the kitchen, West gets up too, following him, and I’m left staring at the tablecloth.
“You shouldn’t be worried, Maddie.” Emily says, and my eyes look up to her face. “I know you’re probably torturing yourself right now, and you shouldn’t…”
My heart drops. Was I so obvious? Did she figure it out?
“How did you-”
“You weren’t yourself all throughout this dinner. It was frankly quite disappointing since you’re such a delight to be with.” I examine my hands, ashamed to look her in the eyes. “God knows how much you’ve been through, but you shouldn’t worry about Joey and me thinking you’re not a good fit for Jake.
Ever
. Even if you two don’t work out, and
if
that happens, no matter who breaks up with who, I can assure you, you will still be the best thing that could have happened to Jake.”
I try not to sigh in an obvious way because
thank god she didn’t figure it out
. But also,
why is she seeing through my mind right now?
“And you can always count on me. Got it?” It’s almost as if she makes me say yes, but I couldn’t be more thankful because when this ends, I’ll still be welcome and won’t seem like an ungrateful brat who just dumped their son due to her mommy issues.
I nod affirmatively, and she smiles, content.
When Joey and Jake come back, we get up, and I wave them goodbye because I think that if I
hugged
them goodbye, I would
never let go
and start screaming I’M SO SORRY, WE’RE LYING, PLEASE DON’T HATE ME!
So
yeah
…
As soon as I step foot outside, it’s like some type of weight is lifted off my shoulders. That’s it for the night.
I look up to the starry night as if searching for some type of reassurance that I’m not overreacting or that I’m just simply making those mistakes you should make when you’re seventeen. Of course, it’s not every day you fake date the boy who put a
country mouse in your sleeping bag when you were nine, but it is what it is.
“I’m sorry you had to lie to them. Thinking back, I should have just said no to dinner.” West expresses remorse, which is new for him, and I just kick the gravel on the road.
“You had to lie to my dad, too, so we’re even.”
But we’re really not, and I think he knows that, too.
“Except John is my dad’s best friend and gave me cool gifts on Christmas and my mom…”
I gaze forward at the end of the road, well aware of all the things his mom did for me and didn’t have to.
“When I was younger, I looked up to your parents’ love. I loved it, and when we were eating at yours or just hanging out, I almost forgot that when I came home…” Pause. “My dad did everything alone. Worked in editing, cooked, cleaned, took us to school, and picked us up. Still had time to make our lunch in the mornings and leave a special note. I actually overheard him sometimes turning down invitations to a night out or a drink with a friend. He reassured us there was nothing else he would rather be doing than watching every Barbie movie known to humanity.”
“Your dad is… I don’t know how he did it. I’m glad you found escape in my parents; it’s the least they could offer, but trust me, not everything is as it seems.”
My face twists at that. Emily and Joey? Not living up to their disgusting love displays? I beg to differ, but then again, West never told me anything. He knows every traumatic event that went down in my life, and I didn’t get to choose if he knew or not, but he… He’s too jolly for his own good. I may be angry all the time, but he’s happy all the time, and that’s concerning… Or maybe I’m just projecting, but I don’t think so. It’s in these moments that I truly wonder what goes on deep inside him.
Beneath the charm, and the smirk, the pranks, the laugh that sometimes never reaches his eyes.
I glance at him, distraught and looking around.
I can only wonder…
OceanofPDF.com

19
Aunt Lori And The Three Minions
My aunt Lori is my dad’s twin sister. Balayaged brown hair with green eyes and smaller. And she’s what you can call the cool aunt. She’s widowed, almost like dad, so they really only have each other left. But instead of two girls, she was blessed with twin boys and a little girl, and somehow, in spite of that, she has
a lot
of energy. Too much sometimes, if I’m being honest. Probably to hide how she feels and to overcompensate for her children so that they don’t remember they don’t have a father, and she doesn’t have the love of her life… But
anyways
, you might be wondering… Why is Emily more present in my life than my dad’s twin? For a simple reason. The Wests live a block away from us, where the rich neighborhood meets the poorer one, a road separating them, and since Uncle Josh loved Seattle so much, Aunt Lori has never gotten the courage to leave, even if
it means she has to do everything alone, since my grandparents live in Austin.
Why the random backstory drop? She’s standing in the kitchen talking to my dad.
“Aunt Lori!” I almost squeak and go to her for a hug.
“Maddie! Where have you been?”
“Where have
I
been? Girl, where have
you
been?” I pat her arm, and she turns dead serious. “I’m so sorry, I mean Aunt Lori, ma’am-”
“How was dinner?” Alana walks in, Lindsey behind her, and I feel like a deer in the headlights. “Oh, did mom and dad tell you their story again? I swear to god, old people just keep telling the same stories over and over-”
“I’m sorry, why were Joey and Emily telling you about their story at a dinner in which Alana was not in?” Aunt Lori runs her fingers through her caramel hair, the other hand resting on her hip.
“Because I am da- In a rela-
I can’t even bring myself to say this.
” I take the deepest breath in. “I’m sort of, kind of,
pretty much
dating Jake West.” I wince, bracing myself for impact.
“Well, it was about damn time!” She claps excitedly, and I slowly open my eyes. Then she starts playing the actual song
Celebration by Kool & The Gang
on full blast on her phone while dancing around and shaking my dad.
So weird
…
“What?” I thought she was gonna tackle me, excited I got my first boyfriend or something, instead of being- Well,
prancing
around.
“You owe me 20 bucks, Johnny.” She extends her hand out, and he passes her the dollar bills like it’s nothing.
“You’ve been betting on my love life?”
Now this is sad.
“Not your love life. Your imminent relationship with Jake.”
I’m kind of speechless, but honestly, I’ve heard that from so many people, I’m not going to pretend I’m surprised anymore.
“Whatever.” I cross my arms, knowing that at the end of the day, my dad is going to recover his 20 bucks because guess what? It’s all fake suckers… So yeah,
take that.
“They’re also singing at the annual fair. What was the song again, honey?” Dad questions me with the biggest smile, and before I can even attempt to respond, Alana beats me to it.
“Oh, I know, Jake has been singing it in the shower for over a week now, and it’s becoming unbearable. It’s Don’t Go Breaking My Heart or something like that.”
He’s been practicing?
Without even noticing, my teeth hold on to my lower lip, and my cheeks rise.
“Maddie!” My youngest cousin, Paige, runs to me and almost tumbles me over with impact. “Wanna watch a movie?”
“Of course!” Because this means I can get away from the Inquisition. “What are we in the mood for today?”
“Princess!”
“Urgh, I bet it’s gonna be Rapunzel.” Brandon appears, groaning as if that movie personally attacked him.
“At this point, throw me into the nearest river.” Blake counters, and Aunt Lori teleports to his side in no time.
“Blake Holt, don’t say that!” And she slaps the back of his head.
“Sorry…”
They disappear as quickly as they came in, and Paige shrugs and then drags me to the living room.
She goes through my old DVDs and finds Tangled. The kid may be six, but she sure knows her way around a DVD player.
“Who cares what they think? I think Tangled rules. It only has bangers, and Flynn Rider was probably my first crush.” And yes, that cartoon is also a banger… And that’s all I’ll say.
Paige and I sing along to the songs, and I can’t help but notice that having dinner with the Wests and watching the movie with Paige seem like they happened on two different days. My mood is lifted, and I’m back to ignoring my feelings of betrayal towards Emily.
Look at you, Madelaine, being all mature about it… Your therapist would be proud.
Flynn Rider is currently singing at Rapunzel, and I’m one of those annoying people who have to make little commentaries when watching a movie.
“What a man…” I sigh while eating Ben and Jerry’s.
“Do you like Jake more than Flynn Rider?” Paige’s chocolate brown eyes look up at me, face all messy, full of
chocolate
.
“I-” Why are kids so random? How am I supposed to answer that? “O-Of course, he’s my boyfriend…” I frown because if you had asked me five years ago this same question, I would have chosen the cartoon no questions asked, and I would also laugh in your face for at least five solid minutes, but now, as I said it, I’m starting to panic a bit because
why was I honest about my answer?! Since when
is Jake more attractive than my childhood crush? Is this my real psychotic episode, and nothing compared to burning all of my mom’s photos? Am I going crazy?
Do I need to call my therapist?
No, I- I just have eyes, and it’s normal to get over a silly cartoon crush, and West is a real person and not bad looking per
se
, so it’s nothing,
I have eyes
. In my face. That’s it.
“Mads, what the hell? Are you okay? You’re
hyperventilating
…” Allison shakes me, and my head snaps in her direction.
“Paige, I’m sorry, I just have to take Allison for a minute.” Except Paige couldn’t care less because she’s six and she’s hyperfixated on Tangled.
I drag Allison outside just so I can catch a breath of fresh air.
“Is West hot?” I join my hands together and look at the ground, as if that’ll help me. “Because I only ever found him annoying and he was pretty,
I guess
, but is he hot? I think so…
Oh my god,
does this mean that idiot actually made it? He actually made me one of his
fangirls
… What is
happening to me?!
” I bury my eyes in hers and OW!
She just slapped me!
“Get yourself together, Madelaine, for fuck’s sake… Who are you?” She exhales and then focuses on me again. “Look, as much as I like you two together, this right here is called
anxiety
. You’re not in love with Jake, you’ve just been touch-deprived all your life, and suddenly this objectively cute guy is all invested in you and- Oh my
god
,
am I a cynic like you now?
” She has her own epiphany, and I curse him out at the sky. It’s in these moments that I wish my mom were actually dead instead of a dead
beat
who chose to leave me, and I could feel her spiritual presence or something and ask her for advice.
Damn you, Sky.
“You know what, whatever, you need a break. Take a step back and just enjoy your summer, Westless.”
“You’re right.” And the pit in my stomach can go to hell right now, because you can’t trick me. Of course, when you spend that much time together, you end up feeling some type of weird attachment, and worst case scenario, we’ve become…
Friends
.
“Shoot! Tomorrow I have a shift at the library with him.”
“Cancel it. Tomorrow it’s Madelaine’s day. Only about you and what you want to do.”
“Okay.” I breathe out. I’m so glad none of us freaked out. “We’re a great duo, Alls.”
“Ain’t that the truth, sister?”
We high-five sideways, feeling triumph.
I pick up my phone and open my texts with Lucifer.
Me: We’re acquaintances now.
Me: Don’t question it and don’t annoy me, or privileges will be revoked
Me: Also I’m taking a day off from all this madness
Soon enough, a text comes in.
Evil Spawn: you’re freaking out because you opened up to me aren’t you?
Me: What part of don’t annoy me flew over your head?
Evil Spawn: I knew it, but Brown, don’t worry, we may joke around but I’m not heartless
Evil Spawn: I’m glad you got it off your chest
Evil Spawn: and now that we got upgraded to acquaintances I hope you know that only solidifies my theory that I’m the only man in your life
My jaw drops at his audacity.
Me:
*Child. *Manchild.
Evil Spawn: As long as I’m yours ;)
Me: The bar is in hell I see
Evil Spawn: why? you’re a high stakes woman
I blush furiously.
Me: Shut up before we go back to nothing
Evil Spawn: you know we were never that
Evil Spawn: night Brown
I might be totally fucked.
OceanofPDF.com

20
Riding My (Pink) Bike Down The Hood
11 AM and I’ve already run into West’s dumbass. And I was serious about having a me day, so was Allison. We got up at 10 AM, and she made me a disgusting
fit
drink made up of fruit and vegetables.
Never again.
Then we enjoyed some pool time and got ourselves on the stretchers, tanning. Zara Larsson was singing girlhood anthem Lush Life and everything felt right. Peaceful.
Until.
We heard a lawnmower cutting over our music, and all of a sudden, I have this half-naked prick strutting around like he doesn’t know what he’s doing. I was reading my book, and I must admit seeing his back twist and move like that…
Awakened something inside
me,
but I wasn’t about to be distraught by god-like muscles. I’m reading my book. At least that’s what I’m trying
to do since I’ve picked it up from the grass from when I observed him a little too much that I like to admit.
I’m reading the words in front of me.
This is a good book. Oh, how interesting, she went inside the coffee shop, and I wonder what happens next…
My stupid eyes glance upwards and catch sight of him dousing himself off with a hose because of the heat, and
Whatta Man by Salt N’ Peppa
might as well be playing in the background because
why is it happening in slow motion?
And he just ran his hand through his hair.
Oh dear Lord…
I really try to get back to the book, but he has some type of hold on me. That’s when slow motion stops, and he immediately looks at me, which causes my smart self to pick up the book higher and bury my face in it. Soon enough, I hear him and the lawnmower come closer.
“Having a good time there, Brown?”
Uh, quick!
Respond
.
“Yes, I’m doing this thing called
reading
, I don’t know if you’ve ever heard of it?” I smile ironically at him, and he crosses his arms over his pecks. That was good, right? Not at all suspicious?
“Ah, funny. I don’t know how you do that, though…”
“What?”
“Have the ability to read it upside down, I’ve been trying to learn for years…”
The book falls from my hands, and I rush over to put it in place. Meanwhile, he’s readjusting his gloves and strutting away.
“I hate you!” I shout over the book and hear his laughter.
“Sure doesn’t feel like it, perv!”
I don’t even need to look to know that Allison is grinning ear to ear.
“Don’t say anything.” I lay back down, book covering my face once again, and she laughs.
A few minutes pass before it crosses my mind.
“What are we doing today?”
Allison shuts down her phone and raises her sunglasses, letting them sit on top of her head.
“We could cross something off the list.” She suggests, and I don’t like how my eyes tried to search for West when she said that. In some deep, dark,
twisted
way, it has become a bit of
our
thing…
“I don’t know…” I trail off, trying not to deal with the reality that West is now in fact my friend and that friends like doing things together.
“I know I’m no Evil Spawn, but I don’t fall very short.” She jokes, and I turn serious.
“Alls no, you know you’re one of the most important people in my life.”
She rolls her eyes as if that was obviously known, but I know her. She isn’t jealous of West, but I feel like she feels like, after all these years, I’m inching closer to West than her, and beneath all that confidence is a terrifying insecurity that she’s going to end up alone. And I could never. I don’t think I could ever walk through life without her by my side, daring me to do stupid shit.
“Well,
duh
, look at you being all sentimental!” She side-hugs me, and this time
I
roll my eyes. “Pull up the list.”
I open my phone and then go to the Never list.
“I could learn how to ride a bike?” I squint, and sure enough, she shakes me from the side.
“That’s perfect! But wait… I wouldn’t want to steal that moment from your dad… Let’s call him, and I’ll watch from the side.” She shrugs, and soon enough, we’re putting our tops and shorts back on.
I’m actually glad West is busy mowing the lawn, because I wouldn’t want him to joke about all the times I’m going to fall for sure.
“Mr. B, I’ve done it once again. Mads is ready to ride a bike!” She exaggeratedly gestures towards me, and I sigh, regretting this by the minute.
“Really? I’m getting the safety pads!” And he moves all clumsily towards the garage.
How could she leave him?
It’s something I hate to admit, but still think about at least once a day. It hits me when I least expect it, too. Mainly when I’m with Dad. But sometimes when I’m at Mailview’s only beach, where they supposedly had their first kiss. When I see my friends’ parents interact and be, you know,
together
. I don’t know, life
really
likes to kick me around sometimes.
I shake my head and hear my dad ringing his old bike’s bell, smiling all excited.
Last time I rode a bike, I must’ve been around six or seven. For some, it might have looked like a learning experience; for me personally, it was my own personal hell, where I ended up full of bruises even though I wore everything safety-related. I got frustrated, kicked the bike, hurt my foot, my parents had to take me to the hospital, and they told me I sprained my ankle. In elementary school, I threw myself down four stairs so I would be hurt for P.E. and wouldn’t have to learn how to ride a bike. The signs that I was crazy were there.
And now, my head is shooting off alarms that I should lick the ground and catch some type of cold so I don’t have to do this. I’m in the middle of one of Mailview’s less-travelled dirt paths, and I’m praying that some brat doesn’t appear out of nowhere to point their tiny finger at the 17-year-old who can’t ride a bike without, erm,
support
.
My dad is holding onto the back of the bike, and I’m all geared up. Allison is… Recording.
“You can do this, Mads!”
“Allison, I’m not six for fuck’s sake, stop recording!”
“
Language!
You’re doing so good, honey!” The man switches tones as if it’s nothing, and I painfully and slowly
peddle
.
“Dad, I don’t think I can do this…” I glance sideways at my best friend. “Allison,
I swear to god!
”
“Sorry, I just really wanna catch you on camera!” She points excitedly, and I roll my eyes.
“Don’t focus on her, Maddie, focus on me, I got you…”
I squint my eyes, but then remember I should have them open.
Just peddle. I keep glancing at the ground, and then I lose balance.
“I got you, don’t look at the ground, look forward!”
“I am looking forward!” I shout back, my helmet pressing against my head. “
Oh, I hate this…
”
I start peddling with more will, but still feel helpless with my dad holding onto my bike.
“Dad, this is leading us nowhere, we’re both sweating and tired, and it’s too hot outside to-”
“OH MY GOD, you’re doing it!” Allison shouts from afar. Wait
afar?!
I look behind, and for two whole miraculous seconds, I look at my dad’s and my best friend’s face all lit up, and it feels
amazing
…
Wait, I’m
alone
… I immediately lose balance and almost fall to the ground, hitting my leg while trying not to fall, and still end up with my butt on the dirt.
I stare at my dad and Allison, and they’re reticent, waiting for my reaction. To be honest, my first reaction should be to hold on to my leg and wince in pain. But a laugh bubbles out of me. I cover my mouth. And then I smile until my cheeks hurt.
“I did it!” I put my hands in the air, and they celebrate too, running towards me.
They both help me up, and my dad kisses the top of my head.
“I’m so proud of you!”
“Dad, you can’t just throw that word around and- Are you crying?”
He wipes his eyes and hugs me tight.
“I’m not throwing anything around. I
am
proud of you. You, Maddie, are someone to be proud of.” He kisses the top of my head again and gives Allison the space to take the air out of my lungs after tackling me.
“Dude!” She screams in my face, and I can’t help but feel like I’m beaming.
“
Madelaine!
Wow, you finally did it…” Amanda Devadhikar.
Right.
“Amanda,
hi
…”
“
Hi…
”
And these are the most aggressive words you can hear out of a girl’s mouth when they have despised each other since childhood. Yes, I already told you she doesn’t like me, and I don’t like her, but the fact is, her rich ass used to bully me every summer I came here. She’s the only one who has a mansion around here because her dad is some neurosurgeon and her mom is a high-profile child therapist. Pretty ironic if you ask me, considering her brain and soul are rotten. She is richer, has a higher education, has a bigger house, is taller, and has legs for miles, strong and thick Indian hair, also sings, is athletic, is probably gonna be valedictorian, join some law firm who represents the devil, and mostly has both parents, which, thanks to my mom, was a bully miracle for her, gave her more material to work on. Now, I don’t want to defend West, but he never knew about how horrible she was and still is. Around him, she’s only passive-aggressive. And makes those kinds of petty comments only a girl could pick up on. Those kinds of comments I would seem neurotic to report, so I never told my dad either.
“Where’s your boyfriend? Shouldn’t he be here for your big moment?” Her dense eyelashes feign curiosity, and I avoid rolling my eyes and speaking through my teeth.
“He’s spending time with Riden.” Allison helps me get up, and I take a step forward. “West and I are independent; it’s something we admire in each other. We’re just one of those couples who don’t need to be attached by the hip.” I shrug, and it’s like I’ve slapped her, because when they were together, they were
together
. He almost seemed like he was being held captive by her enormous nails wrapping around his arms.
“So glad to hear that.” She takes a step forward and, without my dad noticing or Allison by the way, she lowers her voice. “It’s cute that you’re still pretending, but everyone knows you are full of bullshit, Madelaine. You can’t let a man into your life because behind that resting bitch face, you’re still that little girl who got abandoned. But the town is going to figure it out eventually, or you’ll self-combust, one of the two.” She steps away and smiles her fake smile at my dad.
“I still find it so odd that you call him West, but every couple has its ways…” She walks past me, and Allison mumbles curse words as she leaves. “Nice seeing you, Mr. Brown.”
She walks out, and I can’t help but scream.
“West and I love each other! And we’re going to the sunset party at the River Cafe later!”
She dismisses me with her hand, and then she’s gone.
“What a nice girl.”
“What a
bitch
.” Allison and I say at the same time, while Dad looks at us, confused.
“Seventeen years and I still don’t understand you girls.” He huffs, taking the bike home with Alls and me on his heels.
Me: West, we’re going to the sunset party
Me: And we’re going to be the clingiest couple there has ever been in this town
Evil Spawn: yes maam
OceanofPDF.com

21
I Am Sort of Socially Inept? Shocker.
“Amanda won’t know what hit her.” I walk into the bar/cafe, wearing a knotted halter top, my back showing, and some white shorts to match the dark red of the top.
“
A hot new bombshell enters the villa…
” West mimics those reality TV show hosts, and I shove him playfully, my face turning the color of the top I’m sure.
“Shut up. I’m doing you a favor too, you know. You want Amanda to die when she sees us.”
He’s staring at me, my eyes specifically.
“Yeah, yeah. You have a little bit of green in your eyes, I never noticed.” Then he looks around as if that small compliment isn’t something only
I
ever noticed about myself. He turns to me, a wicked grin on his face. “Show time.”
And then he lifts me off the ground, putting me over his shoulder like a sack of potatoes. He spins me around, and I tap his back, surprised and a bit panicked.
“West, put me down!” I watch everyone amused around us, and a smile escapes my lips. Accidentally, while tapping his back, I hit his butt, and he stops, putting me down ever so slowly. I’m still in the air, just a little above his eyesight while he holds me.
“I know you did that on purpose, I just can’t prove it.” And then he starts tickling me, and I yelp in surprise. Then I feel his hair against my neck and his nose, as his face is buried right beneath my ear, at the curve. The most genuine laugh betrays me, and he puts me down, his hands never leaving my hips.
“You know this is all fun and games until you actually develop a massive crush on me.” West jokes in all seriousness, and I roll my eyes, completely letting his hands around me.
“I think we’ll be fine.” I level him with a stare, and he shrugs.
“To be seen…”
I shove him again, and he releases me, only to put an arm around my shoulders while leading us towards the tables and the kegs, where people our age are already doing handstands while drinking beer.
I stare a little too long, and meanwhile, Allison and Riden are by our side.
“How’s the debut going?” Allison asks, and we both shrug.
“I think I saw Amanda spit on her army when you arrived.” Riden smirks beside me.
West and I smile at each other, which is odd enough. I notice the small glint in his eyes and how the forest behind me reflects and enhances them. Also, his light freckles are somewhat mesmerizing. I could map them out if I were bored. Or trace them. Or…
“Who’s next?” Some dumbass asks, referring to drinking beer upside down.
Imagine doing this… You could choke, not get enough blood to the rest of your body, and go numb, fall, and break something…
“Jake, bro, you’re the champion!” And of course, it’s something West would do, so another strong, valid reason why not.
“Mads, you should totally do it!” Allison whispers beside me and catches the boy’s attention.
“What?!
Are you actually insane?
I-”
“Didn’t know your girlfriend was built like that.” And then he pats West on his back.
“You would mark something off the list, and you would be an icon. Infuriate Amanda by outshining her while having Jake by your side. Besides, you still have to-” She checks her phone, where I glimpse my list. “Start a conversation with strangers, and it’ll be easier if they already wanna talk to you.”
I catch everyone looking at me and close my eyes for half a second.
“You don’t have to do this-” West starts, but my hand moves to his chest.
“Hey, I’m Jake West’s girlfriend now. We have a reputation to maintain.” Every frat bro around cheers, and my heart beats rapidly, like I drank an energetic drink.
I place my hands on the handles in the keg, and they help me get upside down. Immediately, the blood rushes to my head, and my eyes start pounding. I don’t pay attention to who’s around me; I can only see blonde hair, which I assume belongs to my friends. I see the hose coming towards my face and being put in my mouth. Beer is injected into my mouth, and wow, this is even harder than it looks. I try my best not to choke in front of this sea of people. I try to push the liquid down, but due to gravity, it keeps going down. After a while, my hands start hurting, and I’m tired of ingesting beer or at least trying to — I was just sipping
what I could — and spit the rest of the beer out, which, gladly, they took as a sign to stop. They quickly put me down, and I almost fell down, if it weren’t for West.
Everyone cheers, and West helps me up.
“Let’s see Amanda doing that.” Allison pats me on the back, excited, and Riden dismisses her.
“Forget Amanda, imagine Mads doing this two weeks ago.” Riden cheers, and I smile, dizzy and still not catching their faces quite well.
My head spins to West, and his eyes are wide open.
“That was pretty amazing.”
“I’m
your
girlfriend, I’m just built like this.” I shrug.
“No, you’re Madelaine Brown. You were always built like that.”
My heart squeezes, and he avoids eye contact all of a sudden, nervous.
“Are you squirming?” I narrow my eyes, and he laughs nervously. “I didn’t know you could squirm.” I smile wholeheartedly, and this time, he shoves me, rolling his eyes.
“Shut up.”
“No, no, I get it. Someone as hot as me, doing a handstand while chugging beer… You’ll probably dream about it tonight.” I tease, and he laughs, placing his arm around my shoulders again, but seemingly without wanting to.
“Whatever, Brown. We both know you’re probably gonna dream about lawnmowers tonight.”
Dumbass…
My cheeks flush, and this time I squirm.
“Hi! I just wanna say, that was really cool!” A short-haired girl approaches me, and I have no clue who she is. “Oh, sorry, I’m Daisy. This is Matt.” The boy waves, tightly smiling.
Strike up a conversation with strangers, right?
“Madelaine.” They look next to me, and I realise West is just standing here. “Right, this is my boy- My- This is West-”
“What my girlfriend means is, I’m Jake.” He stands right behind me, and my heart beats rapidly.
“See? I told you they were a thing.” Daisy hits Matt in the arm, excited, and Matt just nods. “I mean the love on his face while he was watching you chug beer, it was something else, let me tell you that!”
“I’m just not used to doing stuff like this, so when I do do them, he can’t believe it. It’s more pure shock, really.” I excuse myself, and Jake squeezes me from the side.
“No, I’m pretty sure I fell in love with you all over again.” He says almost through gritted teeth.
“West, don’t joke like that.” I turn serious, and he rolls his eyes.
“Because god forbid a boyfriend actually loves his girlfriend.”
We level each other with frowns and narrowed eyes, and then notice Daisy and Matt are still here.
“But we’re not-” He kicks me. “I mean, you’re right.” I begrudgingly admit, knowing I was about to expose us, and he smiles triumphantly.
“Okaaay then, nice meeting you. We’ll see you around.” Daisy grabs Matt’s hand and drags him away, slightly scared, I’m sure.
“That counts as having a conversation with strangers, right?” I ask sideways, both of us watching them walk away.
“If a conversation consists of scaring strangers and talking ninety percent of the time, then yeah, you could say that.”
Don’t care, I’m checking that off my list.
My phone buzzes, and I realize I’m still holding his hand, and we both drop them as if they’re hurting us.
Aunt Lori: Mads, hate to ask you this, but your dad is taking me out for dinner, can you watch the kids tonight?
Oh,
good
, a break from all of this, nice. My social battery is draining, so a night in with my little cousins does sound much better than this. And no West and people telling us we look in love.
Aunt Lori: Oh, and Jake can come too!
Nope. Not mentioning that to him-
“Nice, night in with the kids, let’s go…”
I pull my phone to my chest as if that’ll do anything, and I’m
offended
.
“You can’t just read other people’s texts, gosh!” I put my phone in my back pocket and start moving towards my dad’s car, in which we drove in here to.
“
Correct
, but you’re not other people. You’re not even
people.
Personally, I’d like to think of you as that witch who lives alone in the woods and tricks kids into liking her.” He catches up to me, and I stop, my hand on the handle of the car’s door.
“What are you doing?”
“I’m coming with you.” He responds as if it’s obvious.
“I don’t remember inviting you, though.”
“Thankfully, your Aunt Lori did.” He crosses his arms on top of the car, waiting and staring.
“I don’t think she did…”
“I believe her exact words were
Oh, and Jake, the best thing that has ever happened to you, can come to!”
“You know she didn’t say that…” I fire back at him, admitting that she, in fact, invited him too.
I unlock the car, and we just keep rambling.
“Look at us, babysitting as a couple… I think this is a great opportunity to talk about kids. I’ve always wanted two, but you know I’m open to more if you want to-”
I bang my head against the steering wheel. There’s a fine line between anger and murder, and West likes to toe that fucking line like a professional.
“If I ever have a kid with you, put me in a mental hospital.” I end up saying while starting the car.
“I don’t think you need to have a kid with me to be put in one, but that’s just my opinion.”
“West!”
“I’m joking.” The most genuine laugh comes out of him, and I avoid smiling too.
Truth is, my mental health is one of my insecurities. Anyone else telling me I need to be put into a facility would scare me, but I know him just as well as he knows me. At most, we both need to be admitted, and we know it. The difference between him and them is that he doesn’t mean it and knows my story, and other people genuinely think I’m crazy.
Besides, I know deep,
deep
down, he would rather put a smile on my face than ever see me cry, but I’m just not brave enough yet to accept that.
OceanofPDF.com

22
Jake and His Sexiness While Taking Care of Kids
I get home, after West left to go get his sister and give her time to get ready, and my dad and aunt go take a bath, while I decide what the hell I’m going to do tonight. I could… Stargaze? No, the kids are going to be left unsupervised, and yes, West is included. Besides, they can’t come with me because stargazing is supposedly alone time.
Maybe I should read
. That’s an individual activity; you have kids to watch and entertain. Board games? Now that’s a good idea! I wonder if I have any in my non-shared room upstairs.
I go upstairs and walk towards my usual room. It’s medium-sized and white, and a double-sized bed is in the middle of the wall, in between dressers. Windows are almost as big as the wall that faces the garden, and posters of boy bands and other artists are all over the walls. At least the ones that aren’t occupied with
shelves with the rest of the books that don’t fit back in my room in the city. It’s also messy,
dumpster style
.
I dive under the bed and see Monopoly, Twister, and Uno… So many childhood memories. I get them out, bring them downstairs, and put them in a corner of the living room. Now, what else can I do? I could…
Bake…?
Not sure if that’s a good idea, considering the cookie situation last year. I’m not going to say anything except that it involved me, a fire extinguisher, and an angry family.
But you’re a year older, Madelaine. You could try to bake scones
. Actually, why not now?
I walk to the kitchen, and as soon as I set foot in there, I pair my phone to the stereo and turn the speakers
loud
. I don’t know how I’m not deaf at the ripe age of seventeen because I only ever listen to music at a concerning volume. I’m about to play the song when my dad and aunt come downstairs all ready.
“I guess it’s time to go.” My aunt says, looking around. I know for a fact my aunt doesn’t leave my cousins very often to go do something as simple as having dinner, so I also know this is killing her a bit inside.
“Love you and try not to set the house on fire.” My dad tells me, hugging me.
“Come on, Dad, you know I can’t promise that…” I tease, and he sighs.
The second they leave, I put on the song. Of course, I put a singable — read: shreakable — one.
Rock Me by One Direction
makes the speaker tremble, and I sing while getting the ingredients for the scones. The pre-chorus kicks in, and I sing with a wooden spoon as a microphone. Then, the chorus comes, and I decide to notch it up a bit.
“I WANT YOU TO ROCK ME YEAH!”
“Not in front of my sister, Brown.” I stop in my tracks and stop the music. Of course, he walked in right this very second. I can practically hear him smirking, if that’s even possible.
“Oh, so you still came…” I turn around, disappointed.
“Were we not supposed to come here, Jake?” Alana scolds. It’s adorable and a little preoccupying that Jake gets scolded by his little sister.
“Relax, we’re always welcome. Especially in your dreams, right, Brown?” He smirks, and I just turn around, knowing damn well it’s not worth it. “Where’s my hug at?” He opens his arms like a dimwit, and Alana and I cringe at the same time.
“Please don’t.”
“Don’t ever say that again,
in your life.
” Alana begs, but still looks like she’s waiting for the miracle.
I go to him and give him a hug, since his sister is looking at us as if she needs to see something happen. I honestly get it. For people like strangers in the village to know we are dating is fine, but for our families, who have been unfortunate enough to watch us interact since forever, it is a little hard to believe or to be sure. She then gives a small nod of approval and goes looking for Lindsey. I let go of Jake and go back to my cooking.
“What are we cooking?” Jake asks.
“Scones.” Pause. “You keep saying we as if I ever ask
you
-” He takes the bowl out of my hands and places it on top of the counter.
“I want to help. Where are the aprons?”
“Uh, behind the pantry’s door.”
He goes and comes back with one of my favorite aprons. It’s white with different-sized black hearts all over it. I didn’t choose that one because I preferred my number one. The one I’m wearing has frat-boy era Harry Styles in it and a sentence saying
I work in a bakery
.
“Oh wow, that is
definitely
your style.” I say, amused.
“Please, I know. I actually have one of those quintessential faces that can pull off anything.” He says, and he attempts a smolder as if he is on the next Vogue cover. I roll my eyes,
making him smile, look at me, and then add. “You don’t look too bad yourself.”
“Obviously. You know, you aren’t the only one who has a pretty face here.”
“You just can’t stop telling me I’m pretty, can you?” He smirks again, making me want to rip that stupid expression off him. I do my best to ignore him and go back to my cooking. I’m working with the flour when I remember.
“You made me stop One Direction. That is a crime.”
“I seriously don’t get your obsession over them; they’re a commercial boy band.” He says
boy band
as if it’s the worst thing in the world, but they’re awesome. In general, their bond, dance moves — or lack of — and harmonies are just chef’s kiss. He is getting on my nerves… No one says that about my boy bands.
“Put it back on.” I point to the stereo, sighing.
“What’s the magic word?”
I pretend to think about it for a second, and then I grin. “Now?”
He raises his eyebrows as if telling me I’m impossible. “I’m going to put the music back on, only because of my good heart. And because it is your house.”
I smile cheerfully. He puts the music back on, and since I stopped it at the chorus, the words
Rock Me
are filling the kitchen. I instantly start to sing/yell too, and seconds later, the kitchen door bursts open, and Paige appears.
“You were singing without me?” She asks, offended.
“Of course not! This was just a warm-up.” I explain. It should be annoying that Paige follows me everywhere, and honestly, if somebody had asked me if I liked having a younger cousin being my shadow all day, I wouldn’t stand it, but that was before she existed. Paige just heals my inner child somehow and always makes me smile, so I could never be annoyed by that. Paige and
I sing along, and she, because of the many, many times she hears 1D per day with me, knows all the melodies. When the song ends, I figure I should probably introduce Paige to the random boy in the kitchen, who has been watching us put on a show, shaking his head. It’s not as if they haven’t met before, but they have only been together at dinners, and she was and is too young to remember that.
“Paige, this is Jake.” His name feels weird in my mouth. Bittersweet. She looks at me with excitement, and the words that were about to come out of her mouth were, at the very least, catastrophic.
“You
are
more pretty than Flynn Rider!” She smiles excitedly, and I try to hold her down, avoiding this conversation evolving.
I swear in my life, I never saw a bigger smirk form on his lips than now.
“You think so?” He kneels at her eye level, and she turns shy.
“Maddie told me, but I didn’t believe her.”
“Okay! That is
enough
coming from you, Missy…”
“No, please, enlighten me. What else did she mention? Anything about being funny or charming? The breath of fresh air she needs?”
“No.” I simply cut this interaction because I do not need to inflate his already big ego.
“Why not?” He narrows his eyes.
“Because.”
“That’s not an answer.” He says.
“It is an answer when I say it’s an answer.” And instinctively, I put my hand into the flour bag. I guess I’m throwing flour now.
“Uh…” He is too slow. I throw a good amount of white powder. It covers him and his hair, and he looks like a snowman and a cute one, may I add.
Forget I ever said that.
“You’re going to pay for that.”
“Highly doubt it.” He runs to the flour bag, grabs a generous quantity too, and throws it at me. Paige disappears from the kitchen — probably a good idea — as we continue to throw it at each other. I’m throwing it at him when I slip backwards and grab his hand. But he’s not quick enough, so not only does he join me on the floor, but he also falls on top of me.
“We should stop meeting like this.” I quote cheesily, as if we’re on one of those romcoms, to his face, that is… Too close to mine…
“Yeah, we should.”
I’m supposed to say something, but as soon as I catch his eyes, there is no coming back. It’s like looking into each other’s souls. None of us calls each other out for doing so. He traces my face with his eyes and stops at my lips. Our noses are almost touching, and I hate to admit it, but I don’t want us to stop… Thankfully, the twins stop us.
“Eww!” Who I recognize as Blake yells.
“Get a room!” Brandon finishes.
And those would be our saviors and Paige’s older brothers, Blake and Brandon. Both of them have striking green eyes, dark brown hair, and
a lot
of freckles. As for their personality, when it comes to twins, worldwide, there are only three options for their behavior. Either both of them are well behaved, and that’s rare, or are complete opposites like water and fire, or both of them are filled with mischief. In my cousins’ case, it’s the latter.
“It’s not a room, but it’s comfortable. Oh, you can’t imagine what we were doing-” I make a lot of kiss noises.
“Enough enough!” They shout, covering their ears.
I turn to Jake, laughing. His face shows surprise, probably about how I handled the situation. He was most likely expecting me to turn red and say nothing, but I know exactly how to deal with the twins, and doing that was not an option. It’s not as if I
didn’t turn red anyway, I was just covered in flour, and nobody saw it.
“What are you doing here?” I ask them.
“It’s a kitchen, Madelaine.” Brandon states.
“What do you think we’re here for?” Blake laughs.
“To set it on fire?” Brandon asks Blake, and then they both turn to me. “I think once is enough, don’t you think?” They both mock, cracking up, making Jake snort, and when I turn to him, he puts his fist in his mouth to try to hold back the laughter, to then turn serious.
“Come on, guys, it was an accident, it happens.”
“You’re not funny anymore, now that you switched sides.” Blake raises an eyebrow and opens the bag of chips that I
definitely
didn’t let them open.
“Don’t eat chips before dinner, or you won’t want to eat.”
“Killjoy.”
Yeah, being the eldest in my immediate family sucks sometimes. I’m the one who has to say no to stuff even when I wanna say yes. Be responsible and trustworthy for the adults.
“I thought she wouldn’t be boring anymore now that she’s dating him…” Brandon whispers loudly to Blake, and they scramble out of the kitchen.
And boring
, add that to the eldest daughter curse.
I turn off the music that I didn’t even notice was still playing in the background.
“We should probably clean up.” I scratch a spot on my nose and hurry to the pantry to get the broom.
I don’t look up, but still hear him washing the bowl and the other stuff we got dirty.
“I’m not that boring, right?” I ask the ground, hating that I even have to ask this to West of all people. He’s the opposite of boring. He’ll be that person who will be full of stories to tell his kids, and they can envy him and resent him, and he’ll seem so
cool. I wish I dared to do half the stupid shit he does. That’s why I give him such a hard time about it. Pure childish envy. I wish I could just stop overthinking everything and all its consequences, but I can’t just turn off my brain like that.
“I hardly think someone chugging beer upside down is boring.” He recalls, and I roll my eyes, stopping the sweeping motion, while he gets down to pick up the dust pan and take it to the trash.
“No, but that was today, and you and Allison talked me into it. That doesn’t count.”
“Brown, you don’t work that way. You must be the most stubborn person I know, so trust me, we didn’t convince you to do anything. If you didn’t want to do it, you wouldn’t have done it.” He bangs the dust pan against the trash to make sure everything falls into it.
“Okay, but what if I did it because I wanted to prove that my life isn’t boring? Not because I really wanted to? What does that make me?” I rest my chin at the top of the broom, and he comes closer.
“That makes you human.” Slowly, he takes the broom from me and ends up sweeping the rest of the kitchen himself. “Just because you don’t party like Allison or me doesn’t mean your life is boring. You must have read about a hundred books in your life, you walk around the city all the time, and talk to different people, especially older, experienced people. You can sing, and you listen to all types of music from six different decades. You have an open mind and have intelligent conversations.” He turns to me while sweeping. “You’re curious, and when you’re interested in something, you deep dive into it until you know more about it than Wikipedia. You observe people to the point where I think you could be their therapist, and they wouldn’t need to say a word to tell you what’s wrong. I don’t know Brown, it seems like your life is rich to me.” He casually walks off as if he
didn’t read my entire being and essence. Like it’s just something he does on the regular, no big deal.
I feel
seen
. And I hate to admit it, but he opened some locked part of my brain that deemed me plain and without substance.
He’s right.
“I-I hate you, too.” I shrug, speechless, not knowing what to say, and his laugh lines slap me right in the face.
“I love it when you react like that.” He brushes past me to put the broom and dust pan away and then comes back.
“Like what?”
“Like you’re malfunctioning because you can’t believe I’m a normal person and think things through.”
He’s definitely not normal. He’s somehow the complete opposite.
“I know, I just-” I truly have nothing relevant to say right now. Actually, I hope he doesn’t feel like that. “Off the record, I do think you think things through, you’re just good at choosing what’s worth thinking about or not.”
Something I lack because I just overthink everything.
“Hmm, off the record, because you can’t be caught dead complimenting me, right?”
“See?”
He nods, a smile creeping up, and I find myself smiling back, ever so slightly.
Silence and muffled laughs from afar. It’s the second time today I’m wishing to draw his freckles and memorize the color of his eyes.
What?
“We should…” He gestures towards the flour all over us.
“Yeah… Outside, so we don’t upset your
cleaning condition
.” I phrase it slowly, and he scoffs.
“It’s called being organized. You should try it sometime, and you know, not live like a raccoon in a dumpster.”
“It’s not that bad.”
Actually, it
is
that bad. You could ask me, just like Captain Holt did to Jake Peralta, to point out the difference between a landing in the Philippines and my room, and let me tell you, I could not tell you the difference.
“I once found pizza with mold under a clean sweater.” He recalls, and I purse my lips.
Yep, that tracks.
We go outside, and the sky is at that stage where it’s not dark blue, but it’s not orange anymore. It’s a soft blue with stars trying to appear.
“It’s so beautiful,” I say, looking at the sky.
“Yes, you are.” He says, unbothered, and I move my head towards him wide-eyed. His eyes are with that look that I’m not sure if I like. It triggers my fight or flight response. Makes me wanna either hit him or k-
Hold hands with him.
“You mean the sky, right?”
I know it’s a stupid question, and he was very clear about what he said, but maybe, just maybe, I heard it wrong?
“
Right..
.” He looks away, grinning, and drags the word.
He’s probably just used to this careless, smooth talking. With so many girls and so many flings, you have to say something like that to at least entertain them for an hour.
“Whatever. Come here.” I say. His hair is filled with flour. “Lower your head, please.”
He puts his hands in surrender and moves his head down. I run my fingers through his messy hair, trying to take all of it, and I must admit, I would be lying if I told you that running my fingers through his perfect hair isn’t pleasing.
“You’re done. Now do me.”
He raises an eyebrow, and I hit his arm.
“God,
West
, not like that!” He laughs, annoying me. “Just clean my hair…”
I don’t need to lower my head because, well, I’m literally a head shorter than him. Surprisingly, my hair is much easier to clean than his.
We go inside and take off our aprons, leaving them in the pantry.
Now would be a good time for a movie.
I walk to the living room to find all of the kids already there.
“What do you people want to watch?”
“We’re hungry, and no, Paige, we’re not watching Tangled
again
.” Blake says.
“Why would we, when Madelaine can just stare at me instead of Flynn Rider?” West smugly says, and I push him.
“Shut up.”
“Hello? Are you feeding us or what?” Brandon catches our attention.
“Right. I’ll go make some scrambled eggs or something…”
“Isn’t that too sophisticated for you?” Lindsey grins.
“You all are being too mean, as if I don’t control whether you eat or not.”
They shut up at this, and I mumble to myself.
“Right scrambled eggs…” I place my hands together, imagining the steps in my head when Jake sighs.
“For fuck’s sake, Brown, just follow me, and no, I didn’t swear, and you can’t swear either.” He points at the twins, ready to argue for sure.
I fake enthusiasm. I actually don’t have a clue if he cooks well or not. But one thing I do know. He
definitely
cooks better than me. We wouldn’t want the kids to be food-poisoned.
“Luckily for you, I actually am a good cook, so you kids are safe.”
“Thank god!” My sister says. I can’t even blame her.
Jake goes into the kitchen and orders me to stay here and choose a movie with them. I’m suspecting he can’t deal with me
any longer, and honestly, I don’t blame him for it. I can be a real pain in the ass when I want to. When he comes back, he brings a tray full of cheese and ham toasted sandwiches. That’s our dinner? It’s a bit
bland
, isn’t it?
“May I present to you, The Jakewiches.” I laugh at the name, and his sister looks at me.
“Oh, you cannot be serious.”
“Laugh all you want, but these…” She points to the bread. “Are worth killing for.”
He passes me one, and they’re still warm. When I put it in my mouth, melted cheese and ham get to me, but that’s not the only thing that I can identify. I taste tomato and lettuce and…
Oregano?
Also, butter enhances all of it.
I resist an eye roll.
“It’s… Fine.”
“You’re so stubborn.” West shakes his head while lightly smiling.
“Don’t pretend that’s not the reason you’re always flirting with me.” I take another bite, and it takes everything in me not to have a physical reaction.
“Touché.” He nods while eating, too.
I don’t know why, but I feel a small pit in my stomach. It’s something I’ve always known; he just confirmed it.
It’s the chase
. Wait, I hate him,
why am I feeling like this?
“This is some gourmet shit!” Brandon says, and I turn to him wide-eyed. I swear to god, a person cannot get lost in her thoughts without these kids pushing it.
“What is shit, Maddie?” Paige asks, and I turn to her even more wide-eyed. I look at Jake, and he is amused.
“
That
is not a very nice word, Paige.”
“Only when your parents are out can you repeat them. Oh, and in school.” Jake says dead serious, and then winks to spite me, and I glare at him.
I turn to the rest, and the twins are smirking, and Lindsey and Alana are laughing.
“Kids, curse words are illegal. I’m talking like murder-
illegal
. Whoever,” I turn to the twins, because this speech is mostly for them. “Says one, will be in big trouble.”
They turn to me with devilish smiles and defiant eyes.
“That’s bullshit.”
“Fuck yeah.”
I start to get pissed off.
“Are you fucking kidding me?” I ask. Only when I finish do I
realize
the stupidity I had just said. “Shit, I shouldn’t have said that.” Again?! “Fuck!
No-
”
Jake’s hand covers my mouth in order to shut me up and takes advantage of the situation to kiss my temple.
Holy shit…
“How I love my road worker.” He releases my mouth, and I avoid shaking my head in plain sight to release me from this medieval form of torture that is-
Him
.
“What movie are we watching?”
“After a lot of arguing, we finally settled on a movie.” I say.
“We decided to watch Hercules.” Alana cuts in.
“Don’t start the movie yet, I have to get me some popcorn!” I light up.
I could be fueled by popcorn.
When someone asks me what I would eat for the rest of my life, and that it could only be one thing, I
always
say popcorn.
“You know what, you can start without me.” I run to the kitchen, grab a package of salted popcorn, and place it in the microwave.
Never in a million years did I ever think I would be babysitting… In fact, it’s in the infamous Never list. And babysitting with Jake! I got to see the other side of him. The side that cooks amazingly and is patient with kids. Not bad, West, I’m impressed. Also, it’s insufferably hot when boys take care of
kids. Besides, it was always me and me being babysat and not the opposite.
When the microwave rings, I take the package out and the mouth-watering smell. I smile at them — and yes, I’m smiling at
food
. Food and me, just work, it comforts me and my dark issues, okay? I get to the living room, and it’s like my heart pumps blood to my entire system in one second, spreading warmth across it. The twins are lying on the floor with their stomachs down and holding their heads with their hands. Alana and Lindsey are with their knees to their chest and hands around their legs. And Paige… Paige is sitting between Jake’s legs on the floor.
“Hey, you stole my spot.” I whisper to her. It’s called lying, okay? Stop doubting me, I know you are.
“Oh, sorry, Maddie. I didn’t know…” She whispers back, earnest as you’ve seen her.
“You can have it.” I assure her.
I sit next to him and start to eat. He turns to me and mimics if he can have one popcorn, and I mouth,
of course, no
, but when I turn to the TV, a hand flies to my bowl and takes a
too-
generous amount of popcorn. I make a face that indicates that I could cry. He shrugs softly and puts the popcorn, one by one, in his mouth. Scoundrel.
After a while, I Won’t Say I’m In Love starts to play, and I glance at Jake as he peeks at me. I throw a tight smile his way, and the corners of his mouth lift too, only for him to look at his lap and then the screen.
“Why doesn’t she say she likes him?” Paige asks, breaking me and Jake’s silent moment.
“Because she’s not sure if she loves him or not. I mean, deep down she knows the truth, but she’s in
deep
denial.” I shrug it off, and Paige is content with my answer, and also, I’m pretty
sure she stopped listening to me about halfway through my explanation.
My head starts to feel heavy and simply falls on Jake’s shoulder. I’m too tired to care, and I end up closing my eyes. When I open them again, my head is being shaken by his shoulder
aggressively
.
“Dammit,
West!
” I shout, scared. “Couldn’t just wake me up like a normal person?”
“Where would be the fun in that?” He grins, making me groan.
“Alright.” I retort and turn to the kids. “Alana, you can have my room with one bed.” They all stare at me, and not a single thought is behind those eyes. “You can go now.” I shoo them all upstairs, and only two people remain in the living room.
Paige is leaning against Jake’s chest, asleep.
“Do we wake her?” I whisper.
“No.”
He gets up, lifts her and carries her upstairs, and I follow them. We get to Paige’s room, and it is fairy tale worthy. Pink walls with flowers all over them. Many,
many
toys and a bed with transparent curtains around it.
Jake slowly puts her in bed, and I watch it happen, against the door frame. When he’s returning, we hear someone ask, “Can you tell me a bedtime story?”
“Sure.”
He goes to a little shelf nearby and takes the Princess and the Frog book. He then pulls a chair, and I take another one.
We do not look like a real couple. I just need to rest, and I also want to hear the story, okay?
Just as he’s about to read, I grab the book from his hands, and I start to read. I think I’m too jittery by the image of us reading a bedtime story to a child, so I have to control it somehow.
My voice, soft and relaxed, makes Paige fall asleep in under five minutes, but she’s not the only one. Jake is sitting and asleep. I hold my grasp on the book strongly and
smack it in his head
.
“
What-
” He suddenly wakes up and shuts up immediately, remembering Paige is asleep. I silently laugh, covering my mouth.
“
You’re done
.” He yawns while ushering, and I bite my lip while holding back the biggest smile.
I close the book and put it on her bedside table. When I get out of her room, all the lights are out, and it only makes me more sleepy. I move to my bedroom, and when I get there, I throw myself onto the bed.
“Goodnight, Brown.” I hear Jake say, getting out of the room.
“G’night.” I don’t even think twice, you know? And I usually have so much trouble falling asleep that I just take this opportunity to do just that.
But as I’m falling deeper and deeper into sleep, I feel a deeper and deeper pit at the bottom of my heart.
He’s all alone downstairs, while we’re sleeping on beds…
I groan.
Why does this make me feel so weird?
I hit my head against my pillow and somehow make my arms lift my body.
I walk down the hallway, down the stairs, and into the living room. He’s fast asleep on one couch and having spasms. I just shake my head and drop my body on the other couch.
I pull a blanket over myself — because I can’t sleep without something on top of me — and close my eyes. The silence is gratifying, and the stillness in my head is rare.
“You just couldn’t stay away from all this raw sexiness, couldn’t you?”
“People who say sexiness aren’t sexy, Jake.”
But still, my heart has to calm itself down for the remaining minutes it takes me to fall into oblivion.
I didn’t realize this was the first time I called him Jake.
OceanofPDF.com

23
Stuff Like This Only Happens In The Woods
I wake up and have a
heart attack.
Jake’s long gone, and in his place, or better than that, sat in front of my drooling face, is
my dad.
“Dad, I thought I told you to stop watching me when I sleep. It’s creepy, and I’m too old for that.”
“You’re my baby, and you’re also not the boss of me. And it’s not creepy if it’s made out of love.”
“Said every stalker ever.”
He ignores me and presses a kiss to my temple. I let him get up just so I can fall asleep again, but noooooo-
“We have a surprise.” My dad tells me excitedly.
Not sure how I’m going to feel about this. My dad is a gem, but the stuff he likes,
proactive
stuff, going-for-a-run stuff, takes away all my will to enjoy living.
“I don’t know John. I don’t think she’s going to like it.” My aunt eyes him sideways, taking a sip of the morning coffee. Her very own fuel. Oh, yeah, he dragged me to the kitchen.
“Shut up, she’ll like it, I’m in denial.”
“That’s for me to decide.”
I really hope this doesn’t turn out to be like that time we went camping. It was five years ago, and the whole time I was hyping myself up. Saying,
It’s fine, it’s only a weekend
, but it wasn’t. Friday night was okay, except for the mosquitoes. We sang around the fire like a good ol’American family and ate marshmallows. Saturday was when
the Wests
arrived. We went fishing, hated it; we went for a walk, hated it; we went to get wood, hated it, and at night, when everyone was asleep, I was in my tent when a noise that came from outside startled me. Then it started to shake my tent, and I froze. The zip opened, and Jake roared in front of me, but I pretended to be unimpressed. I won’t admit it to anyone, but he really got me that night. I think I even peed a little.
Especially
hated it. Sunday was the best day, because it was time to pack. I couldn’t stop smiling the whole time, and when we got home, I kissed the floor. Literally.
“You’ll only know what it is when you get there.”
He’s only saying this because he knows that if I don’t like it, I’ll chain myself to a tree, hippie style, so I don’t go. I hate surprises. Not the surprise itself but the suspense. It kills me. And my dad insists on making them because, well, I suspect he’s conspiring with my therapist, and they both want me to let go of control of my life so they torture me like this.
I eat and get dressed. I did these with zero enthusiasm and some beating myself up because my dad
really
tries to make us happy.
When I come downstairs, everyone’s ready to go, so we all get in our cars.
“Allison, haven’t seen you in a while.” I say, as soon as I lay eyes on my best friend, sitting by the window. “Ironic considering we’re living in the same house and all.”
“Don’t get me talking. Like I would want to hold the candle while you and Jake canoodle.”
I hit her arm, and she just rolls her eyes playfully.
“I’ve just been… Busy.”
She makes that suspicious and regretful face, and I lament.
“Who is he?” I cross my arms and arch an eyebrow, and she gives me that fake white teeth smile.
“I swear I didn’t mean to find someone, I just- I’m not choosing them, they’re choosing me!” She abruptly turns defensive, and my head falls into my hands.
I love that Allison is a casual dater and can have fun
without
daydreaming about someone for the remaining five years. But the guys she usually dates/hangs out with are all trash.
With no exception.
It’s probably rooted in the lack of attention she gets at home, considering her dad is a hotshot lawyer full of rich talk, her mom is the CEO of a hardware company, and her heart is somewhere close to hardware. But I don’t tell her this, like she doesn’t tell me that I have abandonment issues due to my skanky mom. I don’t bring up hers, and she doesn’t bring up mine.
“Well, now I have to meet him. You’re spending too much time there instead of spending time here. With your family. Who owns you.” I point around, and my dad calls me out for being annoying.
The drive was excruciatingly long, and I just wanted to be even more annoying and ask
Are we there yet?
But when we, in fact, do get there, I wish I had never wanted to find out in the first place.
“Oh no.
Why?
” I whine.
“Girls, I’ll be needing your phones. To make it an immersive experience, Madelaine,
stop doing that face.
” He warns, and we
begrudgingly pass our phones to him. Now
this
is the greatest form of torture.
We’re standing just outside of Mailview, in a preserved forest where humans built paths and created a space where animals and people could coexist as one. Basically, we’re going to a place where you walk more than three and a half miles and have to live with wild animals crossing in front of us.
“Speaking of wild animals.” I mutter for only me and Allison to hear.
Jake West struts out of his car with the brightest smile you’ve ever seen, aimed at me and my disdain.
“Stop giggling, I was tricked into this.” I excuse myself, towards him.
“I didn’t say anything.” His hands fly upwards so as not to show any guilt on his end.
“But you thought it.”
“I think lots of things, Brown, and you like none of it.” He walks closer, and he quickly whispers in my ear. “You wanna know what I think about?”
“No, but I’m sure you’ll tell me anyway.”
I’m such a liar, and I’m starting to be like every other girl who bends at his words…
But you didn’t hear that from me.
“You. Me. Mailview’s chapel. Bring a dress, and I’ll offer the rings.” He winks, and to mask how much that affected me, I scoff, disgusted.
“How generous of you.”
“I know.” He smuggly brushes off, like he’s god-almighty.
“Could you two stop flirting with each other for one second?” Riden pops into the conversation.
“Why the bad mood, Riden?” I ask, obviously already knowing the answer.
“As if you didn’t know already.” He spits out.
Oh my god,
he confirms it. That should make me happier, but it only makes me sadder. Poor Riden pining after Allison while she’s with another train wreck who doesn’t deserve her.
“Would it be too bad if we locked them in a nearby shed together and let them…” I whisper sideways to Jake, and he laughs.
“That’s not very PG-13 of you, Brown.”
I roll my eyes.
“One,
you
made it dirty. I was gonna say let them talk, and two, if what it takes for them to get together is walk out of there with Bridge-Matten babies, then yes, fuck PG-13.”
He whistles in a surprised melody.
“Wow, even dropped the f-bomb. Who are you and what have you done with Madelaine Brown?” He grins like an idiot, and I shove him.
“I’ve always said f-
The f-word.
” I stop myself because I don’t like to just throw it around if it’s not meant to be said, you know?
“Hmm.” He muses, and I walk faster in front of him.
Riden joins us by scoffing, and then Allison tags along. Meanwhile, our parents are already 50 feet ahead, praising how good it is to get in touch with nature with no phones in sight.
“Hey.” Riden casually greets Allison in a moody, let-down tone.
“Hey.” Now
her tone
, I don’t know if I detect pity or… Regret, maybe?
“Shoot, I think I dropped an earring back there. Can you help me look?”
“Real smooth.” West mutters while I drag his hand backwards, and we both crouch looking at the ground.
“You know I can see you have both earrings, right?”
She gives up on me, and she and Riden walk side by side. The interaction starts. At first, they’re awkward, and then, when they
gain more momentum, she keeps turning her head away, and he looks like a smitten puppy, glancing at her.
“I can’t watch this. It’s too painful.” I cover my eyes, continuing to walk.
A good minute passes of me trying to sneak a peek between my fingers when suddenly I hear Jake saying, “You might want to see this.”
I take my hands off my eyes, and Allison and Riden are side-hugging. Kind of uneasy. But yay! I start to shake Jake’s arm with excitement, and then try to go to them, but Jake stops me with his arms.
“Oh no, you won’t.”
“Uh, yes, I will.” I say through gritted teeth.
“Brown, leave them alone. Let them breathe.” He says in a warning tone. He’s right, but who is he to
warn
me?
I take a step towards them while ironically smirking at Jake and begin to fasten my pace.
“Why are you so stubborn?” He teleports to my side — let’s be honest, I’m no runner and especially not a football player like him — gets down to waist-level, and picks me up, like I weigh nothing.
“Jake! I mean-
West!
” My brain is in panic mode because why am I liking this?!
“Hmm… I don’t think so. Oh, this is actually fun, I could take you everywhere.”
“Come
on
, West.”
“You were going to interrupt them. Good stuff happens without meddling. So no, you will stay here with me.”
Urgh. He can be so agonizing. At least I don’t dislike him anymore. I stand him. That’s it. I never
hated
him. Hate is a strong word, and not even Jake deserves it. Shit, not even Amanda deserves it. Maybe a little bit, but I don’t really care enough right now. But I definitely don’t like her.
As he carries me, I discreetly pull out his
hidden second
phone. It’s actually good that he even picked me up because I don’t have to walk, and I can take photos of his butt and gorgeous selfies of me giving him the finger.
“Hey, Brown?”
“Yes?”
I look good in this one…
“Why are you not complaining?”
“Uh…” He puts me down too quickly for me to react and looks at me. I try to put the phone in my pocket, but I’m too slow.
“Are you crazy?! Give me my phone.”
I grab the phone and manage to put it in my pocket, and start dodging him. He literally throws himself at me, and we both fall to the ground. He tries to turn me around, but I make my body dead weight so it’s harder for him to do so. He rolls to the side, and my face hits the ground. He gets up quickly, and when I get up again, he makes me start to run for my life. I can’t believe I’m running, but at least I’m pissing him off. He runs after me, and this time I’m really making an effort. I pass by our parents and continue the most tiring and deadly minutes of my life. It’s not until it passes a good minute that he finally catches me. I throw myself on top of him this time, because if I’m on his back, it’s more difficult for him to get the phone, and this time, neither of us falls. Instead, he’s giving me a piggyback ride against his own will. He starts to get out of breath, and I ask, amused, and trying not to wheeze, “Getting tired, West?”
“YES!”
“Alright, I’ll make it easier for you.” I get out of his back and start waving the phone around, waiting for someone to notice. Suddenly, it gets out of my hands, but it wasn’t him, no,
it was Emily.
“Jacob Louis Lowe West, did you really bring an old phone to family time?”
Blake and Brandon snicker in the background and can’t help adding, “Holy shit, she brought out his government name.”
“Are we that
unbearable
that you had to bring back to life a
Nokia?
” Emily continues shouting, and Jake furiously stares at me while I laugh behind his mother’s back.
“It’s not like it’s like the old ones…” He mutters.
Oh, how the turn tables…
“She’s laughing at me!” He calls after our parents.
“Being a snitch doesn’t look good on you, son.” Joey throws back.
“I think you’re actually the offspring of immorality and corruption.”
“Then aren’t we sweet together, Evil Spawn?” I smirk at him.
“I never got the nickname
Evil Spawn
,” He starts to wander off in his thoughts, out loud. “I’m a lovely and caring person-”
“I’m tired!” Paige says suddenly, interrupting.
Jake lowers to his knees, without thinking, and makes a gesture for Paige to come and sit on his shoulders. She smiles excitedly and climbs him. Her tiny legs can be seen hanging from his shoulders, and her head rests on his.
Imagine sleeping in that hair.
It’s nice and fluffy and messy… I look at both of them, and Jake just said something that makes Paige laugh. I don’t know what it is with boys and children, but it’s the second time this week he’s charming me, and I don’t like this type of manipulation. It’s like I’m actually starting to see something in him. In his
heart
. And that’s dangerous, I can’t have that. The Great Wall of China surrounds my heart, and he just can’t come in here and pull a Mulan on me. He can’t- Come
close
and have a look and start
cherishing it
, only to throw it away when he gets back together with the actual Devil reincarnated,
Amanda
.
I push those feelings and questions to the back of my head. No need to panic, just look at the nice trees. We walk, and we
walk, and
finally,
half an hour has passed when we get to the cars again.
“Cars!” I yell.
“She’s more excited to see the cars than to see me.” Jake complains to Paige, and she giggles.
“And never doubt that for a second, honey.” I counter, honestly.
“How are they dating?!” Blake asks, incredulous.
He’s right. We won’t fool anyone if we continue our relationship like this. We have to be more…
Clingy
…
I turn to Jake, hesitant, and grab his hand. The second my fingers touch his, he turns his head to me, surprised. But not in a bad way.
“I’m sorry for jumping you nearly four times.” I say almost through gritted, reluctant teeth. Because I’m definitely not sorry for that. It was
fun
…
“Is Madelaine Brown apologizing? To me-” He asks smugly.
I hate to put myself in this position. We never apologize to each other, ever. And that smug face is so
vexing
, especially when I was the one causing it.
I elbow him on the ribs, and he coughs. He looks beside me, and Blake is narrowing his eyes at us. Finally, Jake’s brain starts putting it together, and he says something.
“I-I’m sorry for tackling you over a Nokia.” He apologizes, defeated and feeling observed.
And I do the stupid but necessary thing that comes to mind.
“Don’t worry.” And I peck him on the lips. Quick and easy. Just a small touch that it could be his cheek, as easy as that. But I know it was on the lips, and I can’t help but panic as my chest tumbles.
“Ew!” Blake shouts.
I direct my gaze back to Jake, and he is smiling,
genuinely
smiling that 1.21 gigawatt smile and shaking his head slowly
because a tiny Paige is sleeping on his hair. I point to it, and he whispers to me. “Guess I’m good to lie on.”
I sigh, a contemptuous sigh, feeling actually nervous by his words. Do I wanna lie on him?
Yes…
It’s like a whispering, enticing voice is coming from my insides, urging me to just admit it.
“I don’t know about the rest of you, but that hair definitely looks comfortable.”
I blush a little at the comment. Don’t know why, just because I’m me. I remember yesterday when I ran my fingers through it, and it felt like I could do that every day. Wait…
What…?
I force myself to break our staring contest and look at the ground. We are now next to the cars, and Jake breaks our hands and takes Paige to my aunt’s car. He grabs her carefully and then lays her on the back seat, leaving the rest to my aunt. Unexpectedly, a terrible need to pee comes to me, and I warn my dad that I’m going to the public restrooms. When I return, an aggravating familiar voice reaches my ears, and I follow it.
Oh,
Amanda is here. I hate to admit it, but she looks great. Her Indian ancestry, from her dad’s side, is really showing off. Her black straight hair is silky and shiny, not to mention that her darker skin is practically glowing. And her beautiful person is also talking to Jake. Her ex,
my
boyfriend. FAKE boyfriend,
fake
boyfriend, Madelaine.
Jesus…
I walk there, and when I reach them, Amanda’s head shoots in my direction, and only one word comes out of her mouth.
“Madelaine.”
I see. Today, we are going with no offensive comments. I can also play that game.
“Amanda.”
“We were just talking about our dates.” She informs.
Ah, yes, the annual public display of Amanda Devadhikar and Jake West virtually sucking each other’s faces whilst eating in a public space. I have, unfortunately, experienced a couple of those. One of the good things about this whole fake dating thing is that when she says things like that, I, being Jake’s girlfriend, should be jealous or angry, but I’m
definitely not
.
“So… Where did you two already go? Paul’s Diner? That pizza place near the ice cream shop? The ice cream shop?”
I was about to say no, that we hadn’t actually done any of that, when Jake spoke for me.
“We have been in various places. More discreet. In fact, today I’ll take Brown here out for a surprise date.”
I widen my eyes at the answer. Guess I’m going on a date. A
surprise
one. More surprises. Look where they already got me. Amanda’s eyes widen too, as I doubt he ever went on a surprise date with her, let alone discreetly. They always did the same thing, and Jake taking me, somewhere Amanda never went, must drive her crazy.
“Lucky you.” She finally says, through gritted teeth.
“Lucky me.” I trail off, placing an arm around his back.
What?
As much as they know, we are together, and he’s my man.
He just mentioned the date, and I’m already overthinking. Where is he going to take me? A restaurant? Movies? Library, to talk about our favorite books? Doubt he reads the same books as me though… And what if I don’t like it? What if I
hate
it?
But
what if I love it? I snap out of my little world and feel myself getting dragged somewhere.
“Brown, I must say it’s scary and impressive the way you can zone out.”
“Yeah…” I agree.
Sometimes it’s good, like when you want to ignore a person or retreat to your own little world because it feels good. But sometimes it’s not that good, because I’m thinking if an English
dog can understand a French dog instead of answering the maths-related question, asked in a test that determines whether I’m not I’m failing maths.
“So, see you tomorrow?” I ask.
“What? What about our date?”
“I thought it wasn’t real. I thought you said that to bug Amanda.”
“That was a bonus.”
“Oh. So where are you going to take me?” I hate how a little bit of excitement came out.
“Can’t say. It’s confidential.”
“Oh come on!” He gives me his signature smirk and waves, going to his car.
I go into my car and think. I bet he likes to torture me like this. I wouldn’t put it past him to have a horrid list of things he can do to drive me crazy. Like his smile, but that’s just natural. He
knows
that I hate surprises. Evil Spawn.
But it’s your Evil Spawn
.
Technically, he’s not. It’s fake. I have to remember that. I have to brainwash myself back to normal because he’s too good at this. Messing with me and my emotions and every trauma I didn’t know could be touched until we made this deal. Until he came closer.
It’s
not
going to last forever. It’s just going to fade away. Like everything in life. I mean, I like to be around him. And I like his hair, his patience, his eyes, his voice, his personality-
Holy shit, I’m starting to like him.
My little rant caused me to zone out, again, and made me realize that I panicked the whole way home.
“Maddie!” Allison breaks my reverie. “Get your ass up and go get ready for your date!” Allison shouts, smiling.
Glad she’s in a good mood.
She’s not the one going on a date with
him
.
OceanofPDF.com

24
I’m CONFLICTED While On a Bike
After taking a shower while being a nervous wreck, I come back to the bedroom and find Allison, goofy smiling at her phone.
“Mystery boy?” I ask, trying not to sound bitchy.
“What? Oh, no. Riden.”
“Hm.” I say smiling.
“You’re so annoying.” She rolls her eyes, and I sit on my bed.
“So who is mystery boy?”
She lifts her eyes from her phone to me and, for a few seconds, doesn’t move. Then she throws the phone out of the way and tells me.
“Tanner. Tanner Bors.”
Ah, every girl’s second crush in this town. Second, because usually the first was
Jake
.
“Familiar with him. Continue.”
She leans against the wall behind her and huffs.
“It happened the night you decided to announce to the whole town you were dating Jake. You went home, and Riden and I stayed behind. Tanner started dancing with me, and then he asked for my number, and then you got so busy with Jake and the whole plan of faking you were a thing that I just ended up spending more and more time with him. So yeah, I guess that’s about it.” She scratches the back of her head, waiting for me to be judgmental. Usually, I would be. But now I’m a hypocrite. Who says she can’t date Tanner if I’m “dating” Jake West. At this point,
who even cares?
“Okay, thanks for sharing.” I get up and move to my nightstand.
“Okay? That’s it? No,
He isn’t trustworthy, Alls. Don’t make me say I told you so, Alls.”
That’s how I sound? Damn, I should loosen up.
“Nope. You’re capable of making your own decisions. I should stop being such a pain in the ass to you.” I spray a little bit of perfume.
“No!” She shrieks, making me jump and turn around, scared. “This is the part where you tell me to break up with him! You can’t just have an epiphany and leave me alone to deal with these trashy men!”
“Is Tanner trashy?” I ask sincerely.
Everything I hear about him is mostly good things.
“No… But-” She jumps from the bed and grabs my arms. “Slap me. Force me to leave him.”
“Allison,
are you having a stroke?
”
“No- It’s just, he’s actually nice, Mads.”
“Oooh, your attachment issues are issuing a fight or flight response. Listen, Alls, truth is, three weeks ago I would probably play along and convince you to leave him, but if he’s a good thing, why would you not want him in your life?”
She sits down on the bed and looks me straight in the eye, shrugging.
“I could say the same about you.”
“Jake- I mean,
West
is different. I’m the thrill of the chase, and once Amanda is begging him to come back, he won’t give me a second thought.” I shrug, my heart feeling like it took a punch.
“I don’t know Mads. I’ve always seen the way he looks at you. And it’s like you’re in this self-preservation bubble that’s destroying you from the inside out. It’s like it’s rooted in you that you can’t be happy. And maybe you’re right. Maybe Jake is just an adrenaline junkie who likes what he can’t have, but I have a feeling that it’s different with you. And I think deep down you know that too, and it scares the shit out of you. Just because your mom didn’t choose you, it doesn’t mean others won’t.”
Now that was a blow. I know she didn’t mean it like that, but I still feel like shit after that last sentence.
“Thanks, Alls.”
She frowns and gets up.
“Mads, that’s not what I meant to say-”
“But you did. I’m late, see you tonight.”
And I get out of my room.
Each step that rocks our old wooden floors only intensifies the panic and anxiety inside me. Everything turns muffled, and only when I come into the kitchen, without me expecting it to, does it turn okay again.
Jake steps into our kitchen as soon as I step in.
“Good evening, neighbors!” Jake greets cheerfully.
I look at him, and come
on
, could that boy
be any more
handsome? It’s not like he is suited up or anything, and that makes it worse. Those cargo shorts and that white shirt with the top two buttons,
unbuttoned
, aren’t that impressive, but still, I’m trying not to blush intensely. And his messy hair is still wet,
and a few strands are falling onto his face. I mean, god! Was that really necessary?
It’s like I’m experiencing this turmoil of emotions right now, and I’m too confused to get out words. Look at your family and wait for him to say something.
“Mr. B, if you don’t mind, I’m here to take my blushing girl here to a surprise date.”
“I don’t mind. At all. She keeps saying she hates surprises but keeps having men in her life who love to make them…”
I look at my dad truly this time, and not to distract myself from… People. He’s smiling and-
Are his eyes twinkling?
Why is he so emotional, and why can’t I regulate my emotions like him? In a healthy way?
“Dad?”
“Yeah?” He responds, looking at me with the most endearing look I’ve ever seen. Like every time I talk about how much I liked a book, or the first time we went to the annual fair without the she-devil and he, my sister and I had so much fun. Or when I danced with him in the kitchen, on top of his feet, because I was really small and couldn’t reach him. All those memories rushed and are confined in one look.
“You okay?”
“I’m just really happy seeing you get out of your hard shell. I’m glad you’re letting the world see the beautiful girl you’ve always been.
Inside
and out,
and
I’m ruining the mood like an old man who has no life.” He jokes, and I shake my head.
“Well, everything good in me is thanks to you, old man, so thanks.”
He opens his arms, and I go for a quick hug, and I have to admit, these hugs my dad gives kind of made me forget every worry that haunted my mind seconds ago. But I can’t be attached to my dad forever, unfortunately. He’s like a dream catcher that captures all my nightmares.
I get out of my dad’s arms and walk slowly toward Jake, avoiding his eyes like the brave person I am.
“John, I wish to become half the man you are.” Jake points to my dad, like the suck-up he is, while opening the kitchen door.
“Yeah, yeah, you just wanna distract me from the fact you’re gonna be alone with my daughter for three hours.” My dad raises an eyebrow, and my face morphs into disgust.
“Dad!”
“No comments.” Jake
comments
while getting out of the door and taking my hand with him.
Although it’s 8 PM, the sun is still out there and ready to set about what I expect to be 8:50 PM. I love how in the summer, the sunset is later. It can even set at 9 PM.
We make our way to the gate, and when we get out of it, I speak for the first time.
“My family is more emotional than I am. My
dad
.” I clarify. “Not that I don’t cry, it’s just not…“ I trail off, Allison’s words echoing through the back of my mind.
Just because your mom didn’t choose you…
“You okay?” He looks forward, hands in his pockets, while taking me somewhere.
“Fine, stop asking.” I briskly say.
He purses his lips and nods stiffly.
“I understand you may be going through something right now, but you don’t have to talk to me that way.”
It’s like a slap in the face. He never called me out like that. I’ve said ruder things to him, but this is the one he calls me out on, because usually there’s an understanding between us that we mock each other, but we don’t mean it. We do it respectfully, and he’s right, I wasn’t respectful to him right now.
What’s wrong with me?
“You’re right, I’m sorry.” I get it out of my chest, and unexpectedly, my eyes start stinging.
Oh, this cannot be happening…
“Okay, something really
is
wrong… You just said you’re sorry.”
I blow out a big breath, and my hands start shaking. I look up at the sky, trying to stop the tears from falling.
“Hey, hey, I didn’t mean to make you cry, it’s just the way you were talking-”
“You’re right, I
was
being awful.” I sniffle, wiping my eyes and wailing. “It’s just that Allison reminded me that my mom didn’t choose me, and I know she didn’t mean any harm, but it’s banging inside me, and I feel awful, and I
was
awful
to you
, right now. I’m sorry,
god, I hate crying in front of other people!
” I cover my face and try to look away and get out of this embarrassing situation. “I don’t go around telling her that she lacks attention at home!” I explode, and Jake stops, putting an arm in front of me to stop me, too.
“I know it hurts.” I glance at his eyes, and this is one of those only times where he seems dead ass serious. “We can go to the movies and watch a rerun or something, if it makes you feel better.” He suggests, and my body eases.
“That does make me feel better. But how did-”
“Max-sized popcorn bucket with extra salt and butter. You order a Coke, but finish it before half the movie has passed, and end up wanting a bottle of water too.”
“That’s exactly what I get…”
“I only know because it’s usually my water bottle.” He dismisses it, but I’m still appalled.
“Am I that boring and predictable?” I half-joke, and he nods his head, smirking. “You know what, don’t answer. Let’s do your thing.”
“You sure?” He narrows his eyes because he knows I’m easy to change my mind on these things. And he would be right because why are we coming closer to his bike?
We stand beside it, and he looks at me, waiting for me to freak out. I gulp and close my eyes for half a second.
To not caring, Madelaine…
I extend my hand, waiting for a helmet, and he is visibly surprised. He ruffles his hair quickly and gets down to pick it up for me.
“So, we won’t be going very far, just a preview that I wanna show you before the first stop on our date.”
The first stop?
How many stops are there going to be?
I finish putting on the helmet, and he taps it three times.
“Why’d you do that?”
“Just something me and my dad do before every ride.”
“My dad and I.” I correct, and he looks at me, amused.
“You also go on bike rides with your dad?”
I roll my eyes, and he closes my visor.
He gets on top of the bike, and I follow along. He then turns backwards before putting on his helmet.
“You can hold on just below the seat, or you know, hug my rock-solid body for a safer trip.”
“I’d rather fall.” And I place my hands just below the seat, while he shakes his head, placing his helmet in the hottest way I’ve ever seen a human do it.
He turns on the bike and-
Oh my god, what is this terrifying sound?!
My arms immediately fly to grab him by his waist, and then I hear his laughter. I push him away, and he opens his visor.
“At least I tried.”
I push him once again.
“I hate you.”
“You keep saying that, but
somehow
, I don’t believe it.”
And he doesn’t give me a chance to talk further. I feel the bike moving underneath me, and my hands grip the bench even harder.
He drives slowly, I’m sure, for my sake. I hate to admit it, but riding a bike is actually pretty cool. And light even. My hair must look like a mess, but at least it’s not in my face. It’s so hot when you’re standing still in the middle of the street that when I feel the soft breeze in my arms, it’s actually relaxing. Don’t get me wrong, I’m still scared for my life, but this is yet another thing I was wrong about.
My stubbornness isn’t getting me anywhere. I thought that if I stuck by these rules and did things always within my comfort zone and my safe space, I knew everything that was coming my way, and there wouldn’t be any surprises. But my foundation and my beliefs are falling apart because I’m starting to realize I’ve been living the same life for the past eight years, and I’m always feeling the same feelings. Nothing new enters, nothing new gets out. And I’m starting to get sick of it.
He slows down near Mailview’s very own medium-sized river beach. The one with the jumping board on my list and the one that almost half the population in this town has dived from. It’s only open for the annual summer competition, and for the rest of the year, it’s forbidden even to climb a few steps, let alone
dive
from it. The rest of the beach is divided from VIP tents owned by Amanda’s family — only a few, it’s not like this is the biggest tourist spot on earth — a shared common area where normal people stay, and the beach diner.
Everything looks the same except for just outside the diner, where a white projector board is in front of the river, and blankets/towels and enormous pillows for support lay there waiting for somebody.
He stops the bike but doesn’t leave it, so I just lower my visor.
“Did you do this?”
“Oh, I did more than this, but that’s for later.”
I put the helmet again, and he looks back at me, that ever-grinning look on his face, and he replies with nothing but closing his visor and starting the bike.
OceanofPDF.com

25
Emotionally Unpacking My Trauma In a Castle
Jake leads me to the back door of the half castle, half house that’s located in front of my own house. He knocks, and an old man answers. Mr. Jones. Also known as the village’s not-so-nice old man. The typical old man who screams at you to get off his lawn. In fact, when our footballs or toys would go to the other side of his fence, he’d keep them, and it would take our parents to talk to him to get them back. He is about Miss Patty’s age, but unlike her, he doesn’t have much hair. But he is short like her.
We rarely see him, but when we do, he’s always growling. Rumors said that Miss Patty rejected him so many times that he just went from the good side to the swarthy side.
I think I can do something about it.
“Ah, Jake, you were fast. Come in.” He says nicely.
What the hell?
He points inside, and we follow. This house makes Jake’s look like garbage, and mine, like that landing in the Philippines. The floor is marble, and chandeliers are hung in every room I step foot into.
What did this man do for a living?
The whole visit, I’m trying not to be open-mouthed. After seeing the two living rooms, the games room, the five bathrooms, the ten rooms, and the enormous kitchen, the old man leads us to a tiny door upstairs. It’s the only thing in this house that looks old. It’s literally old, probably eaten wood.
“Stay as long as you like.”
“Uh, West, are you sure he’s not trying to lock us in and trying to get money from our parents?” Pause. “Or at least yours.” I add considering he’s rich and I’m…
Lesser
rich.
He shakes his head and leads us up the narrowest stairs, and when I think I’m done climbing them,
more
stairs appear.
I really hope this is worth it
. I go up the stairs for a while longer before I
finally
reach a trapdoor. I push it, and I see the orange-blue sky.
No way
. I go up the trapdoor, and I’m in
the
tower that blocks the view of the perfect sunset from my attic.
The top of this tower is huge. I mean, my living room could fit in here. We’re at the very top, so it’s all flat, with nothing but a picnic towel and a lot of pillows, and a basket.
“What is all this?” I ask, astounded.
He didn’t have to make all this effort. I could have lied to anyone who would have asked me how the date went. Just say,
It was amazing, he’s just so caring, and he took me somewhere special, now back off, Lisa
, without even being true. But all those things are. It
is
going to be amazing, he
is
caring, and he
did
take me somewhere special.
“I figured it was more believable if you didn’t have to lie about our date being great.” He says, looking at me with that familiar gaze. Weirdly and dangerously, I’m growing to like it.
Worse, I’m feeling something. Like I’m warm inside, and my stomach hurts.
Is that good?
It doesn’t sound good.
I’m so freaking scared right now.
“How did you convince Mr. Jones to get us up here?” I ask, already sitting and peeking inside the basket. “Don’t say you kidnapped one of his chickens and blackmailed him?” I joke and turn serious. “You did?!”
“No, I’m just messing with you.” He laughs, and I throw him a pillow. “Let’s just say Patricia West has a very strong hold on men, and she can be
very
persuasive.”
He could also have worked his way around it and asked his parents for advice. They’ve been together for almost 30 years. That’s a lot. But anyway, the basket is staring at me.
I lift the lid and gasp. It has Jakewiches, but this time I didn’t have to share them with five little kids.
He sits beside me and steals the one in my hand.
“I did your favorites.” He smuggly says.
I wish I could deny that, but I can’t. Since I tasted these, my favorite food
is
this.
It’s like he can read my mind.
I dive right into the food, and five minutes later, I’m already finished. I lie on the ground and say, “Have you realized that radar spelled backwards is still radar?”
He hums and then takes another bite, and charmingly speaks at the same time.
“Why the random fact spilling? I mean, I know you’re a
nerd
, but-” And he takes another bite on top of the food he already has in his mouth.
And he judges me for not having manners…
“I don’t know. I don’t know how to react to you being nice to me and also…“ I say it before I regret it. “I’m still overthinking what Allison said.”
“Understandable. Even though she didn’t mean it, it’s like she rubbed the salt in the wound.” He looks forward, towards the
sun, green freckles in his eyes enhancing his features. “A wound that you
really
try to close, but it’s like, no matter how hard you try, you’ll never be able to. I get it.”
“You do a really good job hiding it, by the way.” I comment, and he turns his head my way. “Your wound? I could never guess it. And I’ve known you for my whole life. It’s kind of infuriating how you can always be on the bright side.” I tilt my head in his direction. “You know you can get angry, right? Or sad? Or nervous or any negative emotion whatsoever?” I spill, and he scoffs. “And I’m not projecting, it’s just, positivity can be toxic too, when handled in disproportionate doses.”
“I get mad.” He simply says, and I cut him off.
“You don’t. You joke about it, you flirt about it, but you don’t get
mad
.” Suddenly, the memory of him and his persona in front of his friends hits me. “You don’t have to be everyone’s emotional support all the time.”
“Just because I don’t turn into the Hulk within seconds after something inconvenient happens to me-”
“Funny.” I scrunch my nose at his callout.
“Doesn’t mean I don’t get angry.” He shrugs it off, visibly uncomfortable.
I sigh.
“When my mom left… I had a psychotic break and cut and then burned all the photos I could find of her.” I glance up to find him already looking at me intently, listening. “Your turn.”
“Look, I’m sorry your mom left, but I don’t think my problems can be compared to yours. I have both my parents, and they’re in love. It could be way worse.” He brushes it off, and I roll my eyes.
“I knew it.”
He turns to me with a puzzled look.
“You never told me about your problems because you think my problems are more important, somehow?” I cross my arms, and he scoffs.
“Okay, this has nothing to do with you. I didn’t tell you my problems because you
hate
me and couldn’t care less.” He reasons, and I get where he’s coming from.
“I don’t
hate you,
hate you.” I excuse myself, and he levels me with a look. “Okay, maybe when we were younger, but now I just
like you
hate you.” I shift in my seat, visibly uncomfortable from all my honesty. “I wouldn’t be fake-dating you if I
really
hated you.” I bite the inside of my cheek.
He sighs and avoids my eyes, surely trying to get something out.
“My parents split up for a year when I was nine. Mom even moved back to England and stayed at my uncle’s.” He reveals, and my stomach twists.
“What? Really?” My head whips in his direction, in shock.
Emily and Joey?
“Yeah, uh, and then they got back together and I-I don’t know, felt like I had to be a reckless joker to avoid them splitting up again?” He looks down, defeated as I have ever seen him.
He’s never like this. But I don’t dislike it. I find it charming, actually. Raw and
real
. No bullshit smiles and jokes to divert the question.
“It doesn’t make sense.” He covers his face and rubs it. “I really ruined the mood-”
“No, no, let us be somber for a second.” I stop him, and he looks shocked. “It does make sense. If you were reckless and did stupid things, then they would have to worry about you and not their marriage. And if you joked around all the time, you would lighten the mood.” Pause. “Not giving time for bad emotions to appear.”
He drops his hands, kind of perplexed.
“
Exactly
…”
A small smile forms on my lips, and my eyes turn truthful.
“My problems aren’t bigger than yours. They’re different, but deserve as much attention as yours.”
He narrows his eyes at me, and his mouth is already tilting up.
“Brown, are you being nice to me?”
“I’m just saying, I’m a good listener. Besides, it’s not fair for you to know my weaknesses and for me not to know about yours.”
“Ah, so this is strategic…” He teases, and my mouth drops open.
“No! I would never use that against you, you know that!”
He laughs, and my ears feel like they’re levitating from the sound.
“I know. When that vein in your neck is not about to pop out when you talk to me, you can actually be a decent human being. With a heart.”
“Okay, funny guy, enough.”
“And you’re allowed to feel good.” He glances at me intently, which makes me stare at my hands in my lap.
“I feel good.” Which makes a knot start to form at the back of my throat.
“What are you thinking about?” He asks quietly, and I try to push down my emotions.
“People kicking puppies.” My eyes start to water, and he lightly smiles.
We stand in silence for what feels like an eternity, and I decide to get closer to the edge of the tower, to really take in the last rays of sun touching the green, untouched lands surrounding the town. About two minutes in, Jake joins me.
Stop thinking about crying.
Be strong.
“Do you feel better?” He nudges me.
“Yeah.” My mouth twists, and I try not to break.
In this moment, I have so many questions, questions that for years were pushed back to the vault in my mind, but why is the vault fragile now? Why around
him?
“Don’t lie. Tell me the truth only if you’d like, but don’t lie.” He says, turning his head to me.
Something about his look, about his person, about
him
, makes me want to unlock the vault and let it all out. So I do.
“I was just thinking about my mom. Shocking, I know.” I spit out in the most inaudible sound I have ever let out. For the nod he just gave, he heard it. I’m expecting him to say something, like
Don’t worry about it
or a simple
Let’s talk about something else then
. But he doesn’t say a word. He’s looking right through me, listening. When I don’t add anything else, he starts to move his hand closer to mine, and when they touch, he moves his head to the side, as if he’s asking if it’s okay, and surprisingly or not at all, I nod
yes
. He pulls me into his arms and hugs me gently. I want to be strong, and I want to pull away, but I can’t. So the walls I built for years are now falling apart. Piece by piece. “My dad said that she-” A triple knot is starting to form in my throat at this point, and I try my hardest to swallow. “That she loved me. But if she loved me, w-why…” I feel a single tear running down my face.
I hate this. I hate to be seen crying and emotional. I hate that I ruined our date. Why can’t I stop messing up? And why now?
“You know what, you don’t have to hear me complaining. I already ruined our date. I don’t know, drop me at my house, and I’ll pay for dinner for the effort with the projector.” I say, looking up at him and trying to get out of his arms. His arms soften for me to get out, but he’s not moving. He’s just standing there, looking at me. Then his treacherous dimples lighten my day.
“Now, why would I watch Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone alone? That’s just sad and
cruel
.” He tilts his head, and his mouth morphs into a smirk.
“I can’t believe you just said that.” I blink, because it was not at all what I expected him to say.
“I don’t care, because it worked.” He says this as if he needed this to work. Like my smile means something. My happiness.
“I guess that’s what-” He coughs weirdly. “
Friends
do.”
A small laugh gets out of my body.
“What,
what
now do?” I get my head closer to him, and he rolls his eyes.
“Friends. I said friends, now let’s go.”
I’d like to know how this happened. We
are
friends. Because a friend is a person that you can trust, that you can always have a laugh with or a cry with, and mostly, is a person who is there for you, ready to take you in their arms and listen to all your problems. That understands you. How did he manage to walk through the invisible line that separated acquaintances from friends, with ease and without me noticing and
evicting him?
I look at Jake, the biggest smile spattered across my face.
“But I will not call you Madelaine! That’s just weird.” He warns, a finger pointing back at my face while he walks towards the trap door.
“I agree.” I assure scrunching my nose.
But it is kind of funny, if you think about it. The only person who calls me by my last name is him, and he makes it sound like he enjoys it. Like he likes calling me Brown, and my first name is just invisible. And I don’t mind it because every time he calls me Brown, I already know what to expect. Because I’m certain that to him, there’s a difference between the two names. Madelaine, Mads, or Maddie is this person who’s ready to be there and be sweet, with feelings showing, and immune to teasing. Brown, on the other hand, is fiery and sometimes rude, but always
ready to counter back any teasing because she’s definitely not immune to the teasing. She’s this fierce person with a short temper that sometimes shows the worst. She’s not the eldest daughter, keeping it together for her dad and little sister. The only similarity in both parts is the hopeless romantic part, but Brown is better at hiding it.
We get out of the castle, and Mr. Jones and his twisting face, trying to be nice, leave us dead of laughter inside.
As soon as we’re alone by his motorbike, I consider confessing that this was the first time I cried, like really cried and sobbed, since the incident with the photos and such, but I figure I already told him too much and decide to lock the vault and throw away the key. There is little chance of this happening again.
And I was right not to ruin the mood for now. Because we spent the rest of the night quoting Harry Potter and deciding which of us quoted who. He also had my popcorn ready for me and an extra water bottle when I finished my Coke.
OceanofPDF.com

26
Daniel-San Would Be Proud of My Skills
My chest feels light, and the breakdown is like a distant memory. It was yesterday and today, to be honest, I slept all day because I actually stayed up all night with Jake, and we only returned home right before my dad woke up. This relationship might be false, but my dad’s freak-out
wouldn’t be.
I’m sitting down on my bed inside my empty childhood room, while Allison snores in our twin bed guest room, next door. To be honest, everyone’s already asleep. Dinner was just dining out at the local pizza place. Then Allison made me spill everything about the date, and I didn’t tell her about my mental breakdown, which I feel bad about because she has tried to talk with me about it. And things are normal between us. She started an apology, and I just responded
I know
. We quickly hugged, and now things are taking their time coming back to normal.
Relationships are hard, whether it’s friendships, family or fake dating.
The question is, how did Jake do that? Lift the worry off me with such ease that it seems so simple to solve. It felt easier when it wasn’t. That thought appeals to my mind and scares my heart at the same time. My curious self wants to know how, but my emotional self wants to know why. Silence, for the first time in my life, lets my thoughts wander through my head peacefully. I drop against my pillow and rest on my bed, lying on top of the sheets with tiny pink dots against a white canvas.
I wish I could see or hear, or remember something. Something that could make my thinking even clearer to my eyes. He took me on a date under the guise of our fake relationship, if that makes sense. That’s the truth, but what’s also the truth is that his face lit up when I said we were friends, and that little spark shining through his eyes started to evolve into a tiny fire, and for moments only, it seemed that that little fire could be a burning and world-consuming one. But also, he’s West. How could I even consider that? I don’t know how these thoughts invaded my head, but the truth is that they can’t get out now. They’re trapped, and I’m really getting mad about this
confusion
.
When did it turn distant and sarcastic between us? I have some sort of memory of us being remotely close in our childhood. What if I wrote about him sometime in my life in my childhood diary? I haven’t seen that in
years
; maybe going through it could clear my head.
It’s not very difficult to reach it since it has never left its original spot. At the bottom of a box full of toys is the diary I’m now holding in my hands, sitting in my bed. I open it, and the first page is just warnings. DON’T READ UNLESS YOU’RE
MADELAINE BROWN, written in bright red in capital letters.
I am Madelaine Brown
, so I have every right to read it.
FEBRUARY 1
Today, I went shopping with my dad and he bought me ice cream BEFORE dinner. Best. Day. Of. My. Life!!!
FEBRUARY 7
It’s my BIRTHDAY!!! I got books AND a perfume AND CDs AND everyone was there!
I could go on and on about all of the insignificant things I wrote, but we don’t have the time before someone bursts. I cringe myself into closing it and never looking at it again. I flip the pages, my fingers tracing the paper and my eyes going through all of the words too quickly. After an infinite search, I found nothing but hate declarations relating to him. At this point, our relationship was already different.
Just as I’m about to give up, while I’m shaking the diary angrily, many photos fall from the last page. I grab them and quickly look through them, astonished that they’re here in the first place. They all look from the same day, by the outfits and scenarios. My 5-year-old self is dressed in a white dress. The second photo is starred by me and-
My mom.
My first instinct is to drop the photo. My heart spiked just by looking at her face. We do look alike, more than I remember. I hate how I also want to keep this photo forever, stare at and wonder what went wrong. She’s smiling at me, and I’m laughing with my tiny hands around her neck. Tempting right now.
This is the first photo I have seen of her in seven years. I feel my eyes water, and I press it to my chest, feeling guilt over wanting to keep it. So I don’t think about it and do. It will be like my guilty pleasure.
I save it in a locked drawer, and when my eyes go to the pile, I go back to it, determined. My dad, Emily, Joey, and Jake’s photos have been found. Our sisters weren’t born yet, apparently. I run through all of them until I reach the last. My jaw drops, and my cheeks burn. This image is of Jake and me,
happy
and not putting each other’s wet fingers in the other’s ear.
It gets better
. We’re not just smiling to the camera; in fact, we’re not even
aware
of it. I’m posing jokingly and pouting while he is smiling and taking pictures of me with another camera. An open, wide field full of flowers surrounds us, and that makes me feel my stomach flip. We look so tiny and so joyful. My heart warms, and my hand goes to my mouth to cover it from being that open. This picture will be another guilty pleasure that he can never know of. I can’t even explain the attachment I gained just from finding it. I don’t know what I would be like if I lost these two photos. My two guilty pleasures.
I hide all of the pictures together, and when I hear movement of someone going to the bathroom in the middle of the night, I run downstairs to go do the one thing that could unburden my head successfully.
After grabbing a towel and then a blanket, I lay them and light up a tiny, tiny light. I look over at his house, and his bedroom light is on. I feel a kind of shame for ruining our date. He put effort into it, and I… Cried. Maybe I should repay him.
Let’s just stop this shit show.
You want to see him.
I hear a voice in my head laughing, making my heart beat fast with the thought of him being next to me. This is ridiculous. Just forget about it.
I look over, and the light is off. Great. Now, even if I wanted to, I couldn’t ask him to meet me here. He’s already asleep. I breathe out. Silence surrounds me for the second time, and I shift uncomfortably. I don’t like this silence. I don’t like the crickets being the only sound my ears can hear.
Just close your eyes
. Yeah, like that could fix your hearing. I breathe slowly and grab the flashlight I brought with me in a swift motion. This is good. This silence. It’s nice to change for a bit.
Just keep on believing that…
Why do I feel sad about being alone? I
love
alone time. It’s so good, but now I’m just nervous for no apparent reason.
I’m in a blind spot that gets zero light coming from my house, so everything is black. The only thing shining is the stars.
The stars…
Look at them. I gaze into the vast sky before my eyes, and that calms me for a bit. At least until I hear
footsteps
. I never considered being kidnapped in my own garden, but stranger things have happened… I can’t see anything, so I don’t know if it’s paranoia or if someone is actually coming towards me.
Just close your eyes, really shut.
Real survivor instinct, huh? The supposed steps come relaxed, its pace amusing. They start to get even closer, which shuts down the whole idea that someone might have been here for the house and not me. The steps stop, and I feel someone besides me.
“Hi-”
I don’t let the person finish. My paranoid self hits the flashlight into a member of their body, which I assume is the leg, and right after, I sweep their legs, hearing then a grunt and someone falling harshly onto the ground. Without thinking, I place myself on top of the person to make sure they stay pinned to the ground, my legs around their torso, and myself sitting on top of the belly. I turn on the flashlight, ready to punch it in someone’s face, when I realize
it’s Jake
. My jaw drops, and
I gasp, my hand moving quickly and ending up slapping my mouth.
“Holy shit, I’m so sorry.” I mutter, my heart still recovering from the death scare I just experienced.
You know, my heartbeat going stupidly wild and my stomach hurting is not a very good feeling. But then again, being hit in the leg and swept to the ground must not feel amazing either.
He groans in pain, biting his lip so hard.
“You know Brown,” He starts, his voice hollow and dramatic, “when I make new friends, I don’t usually go around smacking them and pinning them to the ground- God, this hurts.” He whines, closing his eyes.
“Baby…” I deflect, knowing damn well that if it were me, I would be insisting on an ambulance. “I thought you were asleep!” I whisper-yell in his face, still not believing the strike I just pulled on him. With the flashlight not quite on his face but allowing me to see his expressions, I observe the lip bite turn into a smirk.
“Been spying on me?” He raises his eyebrows bemusedly, and I roll my eyes.
“Don’t make me hit you with the flashlight again.” I say bored, and he chuckles, making me feel his belly go up and down, therefore making me realize I’m still on top of him. But that doesn’t make me blush or immediately get off. With the flashlight still raised up in the air, ready to smack someone, he slowly moves his hand and grabs it, not breaking eye contact. He easily takes it away from me and lays it near us, still allowing us to see each other. He gazes at me with that dangerous look. That irresistible,
reckless
one. He moves his arms closer and out of reflex — and honestly a bit afraid of him getting me off him — I grab his wrists and pin his arms to the ground, making our heads too close. My lips are literally hanging above his, and he releases his croaking voice.
“Calm down, Brown. I was just taking you off me, but,” Jake looks at my lips, and I look at his eyes, “I’ve come to realize that you like being here.” His voice starts crispy and gradually turns into a raspy whisper, making my heart beat
intensely
. I think he can hear it. Doesn’t he?
“You’re so funny,” I say,
way
more confident than I am right now, and a sarcastic, playful tone is present in my voice, “as if you don’t like it.” The words slip out of my mouth before I can even catch myself saying them.
I blush in the dark, and I almost gasp, not because of the comment that is most definitely not like me, but because of the fact that we are shamelessly flirting with each other. I didn’t realize it, but our noses are almost touching, and my lips are actually ready to kiss him.
After rolling his eyes due to the comment, they end up on my lips again, making my own eyes end up on his. The distance is desperately magnetic.
I could kiss him…
And he wants it too.
What good could come of this? He’s a womanizer. Any woman who gets on top of him makes him give that fake look.
I roll my eyes and release his hands, almost throwing them, then I get up and sit beside him, waiting for him to leave.
“Did you just-
Flirt
with me?” His incredulous and amused voice breaks.
“I don’t know if you
do
realize what the meaning of friends is. That was me making fun of you and what you
think
are good ways to flirt with someone.” I explain, throwing and flipping my hand in the air, gesturing to reveal the insignificance of such words.
“Like you’re any better.” He scoffs. “
Oh, Fred, just stop talking about books and kiss me already!
” He dramatically and
falsely
imitates with a high-pitched voice, which is so not mine.
“Alright, first of all,” I start, indignant, “I was
not
interested in him, I was just surprised someone our age actually spends
their time doing intellectual stuff instead of playing video games and hooking up with random other teenagers.”
“That seems targeted.” Jake suspects, and I send him a self-explanatory pointed look. “You’re mean.” He grunts while adjusting in the grass.
“C’mon, you’re too easy to make fun of. It’s not my fault, you know.”
I lie down and look at those shiny white sprinkles in the sky. Due to the flashlight, I see him lying down next to me, his hands interlocked behind his neck. He’s
staying
. What have I done to deserve this? I mean, the temerity to show up like this
out of the blue
and just make my heart race faster than it’s physically possible is just
abysmal
.
I turn off the flashlight, hoping that I can forget that our bodies are almost touching and that he is right here.
“I’m sorry.” I burst through the darkness.
“For what?” He asks back, genuinely confused.
“For earlier…” I cough, my entire nervous system deciding to force anxiety
onto me
.
“We already had this conversation, Brown.”
His sentence starts so deep, but when he calls me by my last name, the conversation gets distant again.
“Right…” I let out.
“How come you never dated anyone?” He asks suddenly, making my throat close and turn dry.
“No one ever got my attention.” I explain, nervously.
“Bullshit.” He calls me out. “Every Friday you would come to dinner and blush every time my mom asked you about a special someone.” Pause. “Try again.” He throws with a know-it-all tone.
“I guess, no one has ever made a move or asked me out.” I say embarrassed and cringing from the lie.
“And that’s also a lie. Half the guys I know tried to get your attention and attempted to make a first move, but you were too blind to notice.”
“I think I would remember if
anyone
had done a move.” I scoff, and even though we can’t see each other, I already know he’s just about to counter with a raised eyebrow.
“Matt Dern.” He says, and I recall.
“Needed help with his homework.” I state.
“You really believe that? Landon Hollow.” He tries again.
“Needed advice for what to buy his girlfriend.” I counter again.
“They broke up a month before that. He was just trying to see what
you
would like as a present.” I can practically feel his eye roll. It was weird when Landon asked me that, considering we had two whole word exchanges in our entire school lives. “I could go on and on about all of my football teammates that find you hot, or you could tell me the
real
reason why you don’t date.”
“I prefer the first option.” I say, smiling to myself.
“It’s so weird. We’ve known each other for so long, it just seems wrong that someone could look at you that way.” He stops himself, and I don’t think he realizes how offensive that is.
“Aren’t you kind?” I sarcastically shoot.
“Come on, Brown, you know I didn’t mean it that way. I considered it strongly, but not today.” He reassures, making my eyes roll so harshly. “It’s just unnatural when they come to me saying
Hey Jake, would you mind introducing me to your friend Madelaine?
” He imitates with a mocking voice, way deeper than the poor boy’s real voice must sound.
“You’re so dramatic.” I exasperate. “And you’re
lying
, just to top it off.” I humorously laugh.
“I’m not. So… Reason?” He insists.
“You are very relentless.”
“Some people find that charming.” He smirks in the dark, and I know exactly which side of his mouth is lifted.
I sigh, knowing that there is no way I can get out of this.
“I
guess
I love to read about it and see it, but when it comes to me, I’m-” I breathe in. “Scared.” I swallow, and my eyes sting.
“Because of your mom, right?” He asks calmly.
“The mommy issues certainly don’t help.” I breathe nervously and remember the photo I saw earlier.
The sting turns into watering.
Not again
. As long as he doesn’t notice, we’re fine. I breathe in and out very quietly until a sob escapes my lips. I cover my face with my hands, and the flashlight is on. I feel his fingers touching my wrist and pulling my hand slowly. He looks at me with that sweet look, one 99% of the population has never seen coming from him. He pulls me closer, and our seated selves hug. His arms around my body and my arms around his neck make me even weaker. I start to silently cry into his chest again, but this time I’m not sending him away. He rests his chin on top of my head, and my breathing calms down. His thumb starts to do circles on my back, and the tears slowly stop. I lift my head, and he grabs the flashlight and places it near my face.
“Let me see,” He observes my face still stained with two tears tracing my cheeks. “These could go away.” He smiles and, without releasing my hand, his thumbs wipe each tear. I grab his free hand that had just gotten rid of a tear and let it rest on our laps, just holding each other.
“This is going to sound
really
cheesy,” I speak, almost chuckling. “But thanks for never saying the wrong thing.” I look away, not handling looking into each other’s eyes.
“I’m your
friend
, remember?” His dimple shows, and I laugh at the way it’s so difficult for him to say
friend
. “Even though I always aimed to be more.”
I push his head away, and a surprised laugh is out of his body in no time.
“I take it back, you say too many wrong things.”
But my heart nods
no
quietly inside my chest.
OceanofPDF.com

27
Once Upon a Wedding Invitation
Days go by, and just like that, another library Friday comes. Throughout these days, our way of perceiving friendship was shown. From him being just a bit nicer to me, to me not doing that rude gesture to him every time he and the motorbike passed by. I mean, he still makes a lot of noise just to annoy me, but I’ve learned to deal with it. Being his friend now has its highlights. Miss Patty said that we’re now
standable
, which apparently we weren’t before. I don’t really think she believes we’re dating, but she’s not telling anyone, so that’s good. But me being friends with Jake is not the only thing that has been going through my mind these past few days.
Allison and I barely see each other lately, each of us busy with our own
things
. Let’s just call them that since mine is fake and hers is not labeled. I thought about having a girls’ night. Me, Allison, Aunt Daisy, Emily, Lindsey, Alana, Paige, and Miss Patty. Of course, this crowd is only for dinner. After, Allison and
I would go to our room and just talk, see a movie, I don’t know, something. The guys, Jake, Riden, Dad, Joey, Blake, Brandon, and apparently Mr. Jones — Jake said that he wanted to return the favor — are doing something too.
I spend the day in the library, inviting Miss Patty, teasing Jake, organizing books, basically my routine every day, and when our shift is over, before I can go help Miss Patty get up, the door to the library bursts open.
“Shall I present to you the
wedding invitations!
” A deep voice, which I recognize as Patrick’s, announces.
I open my eyes quickly, and I sprint to him, to hug him.
“I’m so happy for you two!” I exclaim.
“Me too.” He dreamily says.
I get off him and look at his face. He’s smiling like he is in his own personal version of heaven.
“Oh, you love her so much, you dork.” I joke.
“I don’t care that you called me a dork, because it is true. I completely love her.” He says, beaming.
I playfully hit his arm.
“Could you stop making my expectations any higher? I mean, I already have to deal with my books and movies…”
“Why have those when you have the real thing right here?” Jake asks, coming closer and extending a hand to Patrick. “Jake West, the boy you used to babysit and had higher respect for than to hand in the wedding invitations to the girl who bit him first.” Patrick rolls his eyes and speaks to Jake.
“Ah, of course, how could I forget the boy who forgot his prank but very
real
rat in my car while I was doing a two-hour trip?”
“Details.” Jake dismisses the issues with his hand and then hugs Patrick while looking attentively at the wedding invitation. “Besides, the reward paid off.” He grins like a dimwit, and the trauma comes back.
“I was scared of rats coming out of the toilet for five years!”
“Your parents didn’t really pay me enough to deal with you two.”
I shrug, agreeing. I would never wish anyone to babysit us together.
“But look at the bright side!” Jake places his arm around Patrick’s shoulders. “You met your bride-to-be
because
of babysitting us together!”
“Now that I think of it, it’s kind of your fault. Our parents warned you we were biters and pushers.” I cut in.
“Yes, it is.
But
I would put up all of your fights all over again for her.”
“Excuse me, I’m going over there to vomit.” Jake says, pointing to the wooden door containing the library’s restroom. I exhale and turn to him.
“You’re never getting a girl with that attitude.”
“Oh, but Madekins, I got you.” He winks at me, and I make a repulsed face. He trapped me, because he knows I can’t deny the fact that we are together in front of Patrick.
“You know what I meant.” I say, glaring.
“I’m not sure I do.” He teases.
“Then you’re an idiot.”
“Are you seeing this? My girlfriend bullies me.” Jake says, turning to Patrick.
“
I’m
going, but for the record, Linda definitely owes me.” Patrick tells us, ignoring Jake’s comment and observing the two of us.
“Owes you what?” I question with a not-so-friendly voice, turning from Jake to him.
“This is the part where you run.” Jake whispers to Patrick.
“Uh… You see… When you two were younger, I thought that hate would turn to love eventually…”
Ah, yes, did I mention Patrick is my type of people? We both were and are hopeless romantics. He would always watch romcoms with me, while Linda was playing Nerfs with Jake. Our parents never realized that they needed to trade babysitters.
“But Linda said it was impossible, so we made a bet.” He continues, crossing his arms.
“What? You bet on
us?
” I frown. “That’s the worst bet ever.”
“Apparently, it isn’t, and I’m twenty bucks richer.” Patrick says goodbye, leaves, and I direct my gaze to the invite in my hand.
“Why are you such a nerd?” Jake asks, while I look googly-eyed at the invitations.
“Just thinking about the wedding.” I simply respond, but while my answer is simple, my head is definitely not simple. I’m not imagining Linda’s wedding. I’m imagining mine.
The local church and all the seats are decorated with lilies and white ribbons while someone is playing a soft piano ballad. I’m wearing a white dress that looks straight out of a Disney movie, and my feet are very comfortable, because I’m wearing wide platform high heels, but still modest, which I later would trade into sneakers, which would make my Aunt Lori have a panic attack. My dad is beside me, smiling and almost crying. I see a lot of familiar faces at the place, and for the first time, I look ahead of me. In front there is-
No.
It can’t be…
“Brown?”
“Huh?”
“What’s wrong with your face?”
“I’m fine, West.” I respond dryly.
The person I imagined at the end of the church was not at all supposed to be there. Why did I even imagine that person? Never in a million years would they be in my wedding. It’s just absolutely lunatic to think about it. But at the same time scares
me, because if it is on my mind and in my wedding, it means I care about that person, and I can’t have that. I just can’t.
“Oh, what a sweet boy, Patrick.” Miss Patty intervenes for the first time since Patrick handed her her invitation. “And I did pray for him and Linda, just so you two know, because no one should ever fall in love while dealing with you two. It’s contradictory.”
“Oh, Grandma, but we’re so in love.” Jake places an arm around me, and I roll my eyes.
“I can’t deny that.” She eyes us beneath her lenses, and I push him away.
“Let’s go, wise woman.”
She gets up slowly from the chair and searches my arm to steady herself.
“Jake, are you going with us?” Miss Patty asks.
“Oh no, Grandma. I still have to go to the supermarket to get food for the boys.” He says with a sweet and soft voice. Miss Patty’s endearing smile goes from me to him. She looks at both of us and then looks at the floor, smiling.
“You do that, Jake.” She sighs, content.
“What are you guys eating?” I break my focus on Miss Patty and land my gaze on Jake.
“Oh, you know, meat.
Man stuff.
” He deepens his voice jokingly. “Oh, and I can’t forget the extra beers for Blake and Brandon.” He smirks in my direction, and I glare at him.
“Don’t you dare.”
He chuckles, grabs his motorcycle’s helmet, and gets out.
“Our ladies’ night officially begins!” Miss Patty exclaims. “I may be old, but I do love that song.” Then she starts mumbling
Girls Just Wanna Have Fun by Cyndi Lauper
, making me smile.
OceanofPDF.com

28
Mailview’s Most Respected Bachelorettes — And The Boys Beating Stuff With Sticks
We are welcomed by my aunt and by Emily, who were laughing in the kitchen.
“Let’s go, girls.” Miss Patty quotes Shania Twain — perhaps unknowingly — as soon as she steps into the kitchen. My aunt and Emily clap and cheer.
After this, I took a shower, Allison got home, we set the table, we all sat down, we ate, we told stories, and we watched a movie while Paige was braiding several people.
“Is anyone understanding this movie?” I turn to the women all around me.
“Kind of.” Allison responds, tilting her head to the side as dogs do. Like that could help her understand.
“Maddie, I already told you, read Pride and Prejudice!” Miss Patty scolds.
I know I should read it, but I never wanted to. I already have the book, but whenever I’m about to grab it, I sigh and throw myself onto the bed. I just love to read funny little romances that aren’t considered a cultural stamp, you know?
“Am I the only one who loves Jane?” Emily asks out of the blue. We all love Jane. She’s very lovable. It’s the only thing I understand from this movie anyway.
“I don’t like Mr. Darcy.” Alana lets out, with her hands in the back of her head, while resting against the couch.
“Yeah, what is the deal with him?” My aunt asks. We all look at Miss Patty, and she looks at us and sighs.
“You tire me, young people.” She says.
My aunt and Emily look at each other and smile.
“We’re young!” They double high-five and chuckle like teenagers.
“Can you all be quiet? I’m trying to see the movie.” My sister complains.
“As if you’re understanding anything.” I roll my eyes, and she imitates me with an annoying voice.
“Shh!” Miss Patty finally shushes us, and I don’t know if it is the fact that she is a librarian, but all of our mouths are shut in seconds.
“What do you think the guys are doing?” Alana questions, and we all look at each other, thinking.
“Probably beating random stuff with sticks.” Miss Patty responds in all seriousness, making us all smile.
We see the rest of the movie, and it
could
have been better if I had understood it, even though I clapped and shouted
Oh yeah
when Mr. Darcy came to declare his love for Elizabeth, and crossed the field with fog around him.
Very cinematic
. Also don’t think I didn’t die inside after that hand-flex.
Afterward, the movie ends, and Allison and I leave the others in the living room to go to our room.
“I have too much energy right now.” I say as we enter the room.
“Me too! Oh my god, I was afraid you were going to want to sleep, but I’m glad.”
We stay silent for a bit, and suddenly our eyes turn wide open, and we turn to each other.
“You know what I’m thinking?” Allison questions.
“I most certainly do.” We pause and then say at the same time.
“All nighter.”
“What movie? Or what series? Or
what game?
” I ask.
Allison is thinking, and then she slowly moves her face upwards, and a child-like grin fills her face.
“For old times’ sake, I’m so down for Anne With an E.”
I go to my laptop, command Allison to put our twin beds together, and go turn off the lights. I put the show on, and we’re three episodes in and half when Gilbert Blythe appears, and Allison and I giggle like little school girls. Some things never get old. She and I might be fundamentally different, but deep down we understand each other on a level most people can’t seem to understand. Sometimes, not even I understand how a social butterfly who thrives in improv and YOLO gets along with an introvert who spent most of her school life with earphones plugged in her ears, so as not to start insignificant small talk with randos. But maybe I lack small talk in my life. Sometimes there are situations where you have to be prepared for small talk, like a life tool. I’ve always thought I would be the same person for as long as I could. If someone threw me and 12-year-old me the most controversial topics in the world, we would, for all eternity, agree with each other. But I don’t even agree with
a basic thing like her favorite color being purple right now, let alone the big questions.
Maybe I’m not as socially awkward as I always thought I was. Maybe partying and staying out until late are not necessarily bad things. And maybe I’m more open-spirited than I ever gave myself credit for.
To believe you will always be the same person from the moment you were brought into this world until you leave it is foolish. Besides, why wouldn’t you want to live a thousand lives besides the ones within the book pages?
OceanofPDF.com

29
Rain In The Summer Is My Guilty Pleasure
There’s no need to say that our brilliant idea resulted in us being literally dead by midday, even after having lunch. We’re both currently lying on the couches, and occasionally release groans instead of actual words. But it’s not that bad, because it’s
that
day. That day of summer when it rains. That day of summer when I can light up the living room and let it stay that way for the whole day, I can stay on the couch, and I can listen to my playlist for rainy days. So I do just that.
I get up from the couch and turn on the TV, connecting my phone to it. One of the songs invades the living room, and I put it on loud. I sit on the armchair by the window and open the curtains. The blend between the song and the rain is perfect. I close my eyes and just listen. But of course, this was all
good to be true. A second later, the twins burst into the room, complaining.
“It’s raining. In the summer.” Brandon whines.
I sigh, slowly opening my eyes, and turn to them, stopping the song.
“I have taken notice.” I patiently say.
“You know what that means?” Blake asks.
“It means we can’t do anything outside.” The other responds. “So you’ll just be stuck with us while we play video games.”
They wickedly grin at each other, and my life flashes before my eyes. That’s a lot of yelling, hitting, and accusing of cheating, and an endless nightmare.
When I’m about to run for my life and hide from their games, Allison groans and gets up.
“Listen, there will be no video games, and stop complaining, I need my beauty sleep.”
“It’s no lie you need a beauty sleep.” Brandon smirks.
“But we are bored.” Blake finishes.
“You little-”
“What if we play a
board
game?” I get up quickly to stop Allison from murdering Brandon.
“What is going on?” Paige asks as she enters the room.
“We were just discussing what game to play.” The twins say at the same time, grinning at me.
“What are we playing?” She asks, her green eyes sparkling with excitement.
“Twister.” Allison responds.
I go to the window, and beside the armchair are those games I left the other day. I take the things out of the box and set them on the floor. Paige takes the wheel and starts spinning. Throughout the game, she gives instructions, and we play. I’m trying not to fall when my sister comes in with company. As soon as Jake lays eyes on me, I collapse.
“HA, you lost Maddie!” Brandon shouts with thrill.
I managed to fall in such a bad way that I hit my head. I growl, reaching for my head while I get up.
“You didn’t even say anything, and she’s already growling.” Alana smirks at her brother, crossing her arms, and he rolls his eyes.
I grin and make my way to the kitchen. I hear footsteps behind me, but still proceed on my path to the freezer. I take a bag of ice and put a towel around it to place on my head.
“That was quite the fall. I don’t think everyone has ever gotten so distracted by me.” Jake arrogantly says.
“It wasn’t because of you. It was because I was-
Tired
.”
“Keep on believing that.” He gives me a thumbs up and smirks.
I start to hear the music I paused in the living room getting louder, and I listen to the living room door opening.
What is happening?
I go to the kitchen door and open it.
Pennies from Heaven with Michael Bublé
fills the garden while my sister, Alana, Allison, and cousins dance in the rain.
“What are you guys doing?” I hate to get myself wet by rain. It’s fun to watch it, from
inside
.
“Come on, Mads!” Allison shouts, happily dancing.
“No way.” I shout back. I close the door because they’re a lost cause and grab the ice, putting it on my head again.
“What are they doing?” Jake asks.
“Dancing. In the rain. They’re crazy, is what they are.” I scoff, leaning against the wall.
“Call me crazy, Brown, ‘cause I’m about to join them.” He smiles and pauses. His smile slowly turns into a devilish grin. “And
you
are too.” Jake comes closer and closer, and suddenly, he picks me up bridal style.
“West, put me down!” I raise my voice, angry.
“I don’t think so.” He manages to pass the kitchen door, and the second a raindrop touches me, I try to get free of his hold.
“No no no no.” I mutter.
The rain is falling strongly, and in the meantime,
I
bury my head in Jake’s chest to at least try not to get wet.
“I’m going to put you down
if
you dance with me.” He reasons.
“Nope.” I firmly say.
“Alright then, my arms are your destiny for the next hour.”
“Fine, god!”
He smirks in my face. I look up, and our noses are almost touching.
“In the
rain
.”
“I already said yes, stop torturing me even more.”
He puts me down, and I try to run to the house, but… I instantly feel a hand grabbing my arm.
“Oh no, you promised.” Jake asserts. “I knew you were going to do that.”
I glare at him, and he pulls my arm, instantly bringing me closer to him. To be honest, the second he grabbed my arm, I leaned more toward dancing with him. Pennies from Heaven is long gone, and it’s replaced by
Dance To This feat. Ariana Grande
. He starts to sway and do all these tricks, just like when we were dancing in the club. I look away with difficulty and watch the others.
Alana and Lindsey are dancing side by side, Paige is dancing with his brother, and Blake is dancing with Allison. He’s looking at her with a dorky smile while she dances, holding his hand.
“I think someone has a crush.” I say loud enough for only Jake to hear, directing my gaze to them. Jake laughs and then mockingly adds, seemingly reminiscing, “Ah, your first crush…”
He lowers his eyes to mine, and a chill goes down my spine, making me tremble, and I don’t think it is the fact that we’ve been dancing in the pouring rain for the last seven minutes.
“Are you cold?” Jake asks.
I can’t even complain. I’m wearing a sweatshirt and pants, so I should be hot. He, on the other hand, is wearing a white t-shirt and denim shorts. The t-shirt’s soaking wet and
transparent
. My stupid eyes travel down his body. The only words that can get out of my mouth in this moment are, “Uh, yes?”
“Hey, eyes up here, Brown. I’m more than a piece of meat.” He smiles smugly.
“There was a-a bug in your-
Belly area
.” I say half-coughing, my cheeks betraying my statement.
I could slap myself right now.
“I can’t believe you actually said belly area.” Jake laughs, making me fold my arms and stare irritated. He just laughs even more. But how can I stay mad at him when he has such beautiful laughter? Like the white and straight teeth weren’t enough, when he smiled, small dimples took shape, and the left side of his lips moved a little more upwards than the right side, because of all those years of smirking.
I start to slowly walk to the house, in pilot mode, leaving him and his little giggle fit. I’m going to take a shower. That way, I can reset. And get Jake’s scent out of my head. And that way, I can let time pass by, and we can forget what happened.
* * *
When I get downstairs after an
oh so good
shower, I find Jake and Paige staring at the TV so intensely that an explosion could happen, and they would remain still. I try to see what they’re
watching, but I don’t even have to watch to know. I could recognize those voices anywhere. They’re watching Frozen.
“They’re kind of cute, don’t you think?” Jake asks Paige. They have changed their clothes, and they’re both in dry hoodies and dry pants.
“They are!” She responds. Oh no,
she hasn’t watched Frozen either.
I was planning on watching it with her this summer and seeing her reaction to the plot twist
.
This is gonna be good. I decide to stop watching them from afar and actually watch the movie, so I join them.
“What are you watching?” I try to join in.
“Shh.” It’s the only sound that comes out of their mouths.
What would the school people say if they knew Jacob Louis West was watching Frozen with a six-year-old and was actually into it? But they’re not here. I am though.
I let out a giggle, and the tips of his lips are turning upwards, because he heard it. Jake moves his head towards me and indicates with a nod for me to sit beside him. So I do. He has his legs stretched on top of the beanbag, so I have the majority of the couch to myself. But instead of taking that opportunity, I pull my knees to my chest and let our arms rest against each other, forcing some type of chemical reaction within me.
When Kristoff appears, they start to talk again.
“I don’t understand why there’s another boy!” Paige exclaims. “Anna already has Hans.”
“I’m sensing a love triangle here.” Jake states, and I snort. “Don’t spoil Brown, and I’m trying to watch a movie here.” He whispers while pointing to the screen.
“I didn’t say anything.”
“You don’t have to. I know you.”
“Whatever.” I grin.
The rest of the movie passed by, and we’re getting to
the
part.
“Now I’m feeling sorry for Kristoff.” Paige says. “I know he came second, but I like him more than Hans.”
“Yeah…” Jake lets out, pensive.
Anna is lying on the couch, and Hans walks in. The iconic line is dropped, and whispers are heard. I bite my lip, can’t help but glance at them.
“
He didn’t…
” Jake breathes, making me giggle.
“Son of a bitch!” Paige screams at the TV. My head shoots up, and I’m so shocked, I’m close to laughing.
“Paige! I am going to kill those two.”
“My mom says it sometimes, and Jake told me I could say that when parents weren’t here!” She defends.
“West!” My manic eyes shoot lasers at him, and he’s
laughing
. “Don’t you dare laugh!”
“You’re no saint yourself, Brown.” He smirks. That’s it.
I grab a pillow and throw it at his face. I instantly let out a laugh and cover my mouth with my hand quickly.
“Oh, what a mistake.” He warns.
I get up and start to run around the living room, but he’s faster than me. He grabs my waist and lifts me up, bringing me to the couch, where he lays me and hits me with a pillow right away.
“Now we’re even.” Jake notes, satisfied.
I can’t stop laughing.
He then leaves with Paige to go upstairs, leaving me here alone.
I turn off the television and just lie on the couch. Two minutes later, Jake runs to me with a worried expression.
“Where is Paige? What is it?” I ask, and then hear a lot of people coming downstairs.
“Trust me.” He says, and then sits down next to me and buries his face in my neck, getting in front of me and enveloping me with his arms. Our faces are super close, but he doesn’t
exactly kiss me. He just rests our cheeks against each other and makes it
seem like we’re kissing?
Either way, my cheek is tingling. My heart is bumping ten times harder than it was two seconds ago, and I fear the shower did nothing to wash away his scent because now it’s like one of those marked scents from your childhood that you could recognize anywhere and feel at home right when you do. I sit very still and inhale slowly. It’s addictive. The lack of distance between us, his smell, and his touch. I feel like his cheek is going to leave a hole the minute that it leaves, and I wouldn’t mind spending the rest of the afternoon just sitting like this. Cheek to cheek. Heart to heart. I close my eyes, and he lays me down on the couch the minute I hear voices. Putting his thumbs on top of my lips, his head comes closer and he “kisses” me.
“Forget what I said!” Blake shouts, disgusted at his brother, Alana, and my sister.
I get off Jake quickly and start to heat up, grasping for air and dizzy from all closeness.
“Damn Maddie!” My sister says with a surprised tone.
I really hope Jake has an explanation, or else, what the hell just happened? I can’t say anything. Literally. Nothing comes out of my mouth. I look like a fish, mouth wide open.
“You can close your mouth now that you’re done.” Brandon explains, making Blake laugh. Our sisters are just running their hands down their faces, cringing. Is that what they saw? Jake grabs my hand and drags me upstairs to the attic, far away from the kids’ stares and comments.
“You may think that was stupid, and I agree. But kids are dangerous. They gossip with other kids whose siblings are our age, and if we’re not convincing to them, we’re just making fools of ourselves in front of the entire town.” He rambles for what I remember to be the first time since I’ve known him.
I scoff, because honestly, it was either that or I’m really inclined to glue our cheeks together again…
“Oh, please, do explain why we were deliberately having a fake makeout session in front of my cousins and our sisters.”
He looks at me with patience and explains.
“When I went upstairs, I thought they were being quiet for too long, so I spied on them.
Not my finest moment.”
He gets lost in thought, and I motion for him to go on
.
“They were talking about us. Alana said that Amanda asked her the other day if this was
really
real or fake. Since then, my sister has been more alert. Then, Blake said that he didn’t believe it one bit and started to persuade the others. My sister caved in and said that the next time Amanda asked her, she was going to say that personally she didn’t believe it.” He stops and looks at me with a dawning look.
“Oh.” Pause. “But you do know that Amanda is pretty jealous by now.” I ease the conversation, regretting not having trusted him.
“Not jealous enough to come back.” He breathes, looking down.
“How do you know that?” I ask, confused. “She seems pretty jealous to me.”
“I saw her the other day. Not with Calum.
Another
one.” He says harshly. “Am I that easily replaceable?” He’s doubting himself. He doesn’t do that. Jake West doesn’t doubt himself. Never. An occasional humble moment, rarely, but this. This is
bad
. This is really,
really
bad.
“First of all,
stop
with that self-deprecating crap, because you know you’re not replaceable, and second, they could be talking. Just because she was with a boy, it doesn’t mean-” I cut myself. Even I don’t believe what I’m saying.
“Oh, they were using their mouths alright.” Jake scoffs. Oh. “I can’t believe she’s doing this to me.” He whispers, sitting down on a chair, shaking his leg up and down.
Yes, Jake hooks up with girls all throughout the school year, and so does Amanda. But for the longest years of their lives, they always come back to each other in the summer, in some kind of weird agreement that they’re each other’s person for that period in time. And in that sense, Amanda disrespected their agreement, and Jake is definitely not her person, right now.
I
really
wish Riden could be here right now. He knows Jake better than I do. And it’s not like I can magically put up a movie theater on the beach and put on Revenge of the Sith for him.
An idea goes through my mind. And before I can cringe myself out, I come close to him, grab his neck, and place his cheek against mine, my fingers lingering on his face. I move my arm around him, but never leave his cheek.
“I know this is weird, shut up, I’m trying.” I squeeze out, embarrassed.
We’re literally cheek to cheek, and it doesn’t even make sense. My hand feels weird with no purpose, so hesitantly I lay it on his chest. I feel his heart thumping beneath my palm, and it’s the most raw thing we’ve ever done. I can feel it accelerate and then slow down. I can feel his breath hitch and then release. I can feel
him
. What makes him able to make jokes and laugh. But also cry and have earnest moments. What makes him work and live as a human being.
My world stops for a few seconds, and I can’t bear to get my next words out, because even though I’m comforting him, I’ve never been this emotionally aware around someone.
“I know how you can get her back.” I close my eyes and force my fingers not to curl around his hoodie. “Since she’s Patrick’s cousin, she has to be at the wedding.”
Yes, they’re cousins on her mother’s side. It doesn’t look like it, since they’re the complete opposite of each other physically, and Patrick is a decent human being, and Amanda is sent by Hades to destroy peace on Earth.
“And
we
are going to take this to the next level.” I continue. “I’m talking lovey dovey, disgusting eye contact, clinginess, and sweet talking. Preferably in her face or when she’s nearby.”
“Okay.” He quietly responds.
Truth is, I can’t deny it anymore, even if I tried. I
like
him. And letting him go will be one of the most painful things that has happened to me in a while. It’s going to be a punch in the stomach when they start dating again.
But at least I am not falling in love with him. In that case, it would be much worse.
OceanofPDF.com

30
The Boys Are Back in Town
You know, as someone who stays under the radar during her high school years, I will never understand the concept of teenage boys walking out of a room in unintentional slow motion with Rihanna blasting through invisible speakers. Or in this case, out of a car and into Jake’s garden and the whole street.
I’m not spying or anything. I’m already here because I’m hanging out by the pool with Allison, and spilling everything about how Amanda and Jake are about to be a thing again.
“Jesus, I feel like I’m cheating on Tanner just by looking.” Allison mutters while the boys get one by one out of the car.
Graham gets out first, his polo that must cost more than my apartment wrapped around his shoulders. Then Riden, his fingers going through his almost white blonde hair, and then Aaron, who’s smoking with one hand and getting his bag out of the car with the other. And then there’s Jake. Like the nutcase he
is, he’s
still
holding on to the wheel while rapping Jay-Z’s part in
Talk That Talk
. And somehow I’m more attracted than ever.
“Allison, slap me.” I mutter sideways.
She one-ups me and pushes me into the water to then drop beside me.
The contrast of the cold with the heat outside leaves my body in shock. But also, nowadays, there’s not much of anything that can truly shock me;
we’re past that.
I stay inside the water for a few seconds, pushing my body to stay inside and feel the cold envelop my face and turn into medium temperature water. I let out a big, slow breath worth of bubbles and then shake my head, allowing my hair to float around me like a mermaid’s. I feel its texture, and when I realize I’m getting out of breath, I return to the surface.
I feel splashes on my face, and
Let Me Love You by DJ Snake and Justin Bieber
starts playing through a massive speaker standing near the pool’s side.
I look to the side, and Aaron’s already on top of Alana’s fairy-inspired float, which should not be dismissed because I can tell you that’s the most resisting float I’ve ever seen. But it is still ironic that someone as punk as Aaron is on top of that.
Jake’s friends intimidate me in the same way I would be intimidated by Allison if we weren’t friends. Popular people kind of scare me. On one hand, I think of them as empty-headed people due to my secret-rooted jealousy to be part of their group, but on the other hand, I just think they couldn’t give a shit about me; therefore, we never have that many interactions. Allison does sometimes; their groups cross-match and date each other all the time. But out of all of them, the one who has the nastiest reputation is Aaron, who, surprisingly, is the one who intimidates me the least. I respect him and the fact that he was also adopted by extroverts who live to party and for girls.
“You should cut out his vocal cords.” He remarks and catches me off guard. “Those were the most painful 30 minutes of my life, and I was beaten up last year.”
Who doesn’t remember
that?
Being beaten up by
four guys
is definitely something worth remembering in that school.
“I don’t know how he wants to be a singer.” He places his arms behind his head, and I’m still kind of surprised at how he’s still talking to me and engaging. Usually, he has a limited use of words for other people other than his friends, and he doesn’t choose to speak them often.
Wait,
Jake wants to be a singer?
“What?” I frown, and Aaron’s eyes widen while he ruffles his hair.
“Oh, this is precious. Don’t tell me you haven’t seen his notebooks filled with love songs straight out of a 90s indie movie.” He chuckles, and I glance at Jake, laughing and speaking with Graham. “My personal favorite is Golden Eyes, although Only Yours is a fan favorite.”
“I thought he only played the guitar.” I let out and hear Riden joining us.
“Nope. When he really tries, he actually can be talented. I’ve heard his demos, he’s good.”
“Demos?” Who is he?
“Although I have to disagree, man, Swinging in The Moonlight is definitely his best work.” Riden jokes with Aaron, but I’m sure my face is still in permanent shock.
Jake jumps into the pool and then shakes his head. Aaron and Riden start giggling like schoolboys while Jake comes our way, and I’m still in shock.
“Shh, shut up, my favorite show is on, she’s gonna
annihilate
him.” Aaron slaps Riden, and when Jake comes closer, my instinct is to swim away or something.
I hate discovering things that make him human. God, I just can imagine his eight-year-old self writing songs with the cutest face and enthusiasm.
“Hey.” He greets with the easiest smile on his face, and I glance between the water and him,
stuttering
.
“Hey.”
“What’s happening?
This is not what I paid for.
” Graham, who apparently heard the conversation, joins the boys in the back, and Jake just frowns.
“They hooked up.” Aaron says through gritted teeth. “Well, show’s over, wrap it up, nothing to see here.”
I choke in the non-existent water on my mouth, and they all swim away, sending us dirty looks.
“They enjoy watching you destroy me. They think my life is too easy, and you’re the only thing standing in my way, which personally I don’t mind either.” He winks, and my instinct is to immediately splash his face. He was not expecting it, and to be honest, neither was I.
We blink at each other for a few seconds, but that’s all it lasts. He throws himself on top of me, and I let out a little scream of surprise. Next thing I know, I’m underwater, and he is too. I
hate
opening my eyes underwater, but I have to,
to live
. I try kicking him, and he avoids my leg, taking his chance to grab it and keep me here for more time. I manage to grab his hair and start pulling, which makes him release me. I rush to the surface, hair sticking to my face, and I quickly wipe it away.
“West, I couldn’t breathe!” I push him while he also pushes his hair out of his face, and his face is indignant.
“You started it! I mean-
Can I help you breathe?!
”
I throw water into his mouth, and he chokes.
“Cheers, boys.” Allison is clinking her glass against all the boys’ glasses until I startle her.
“Allison!”
She almost spills her drink and moves to come to me, as I’m already grabbing my clothes and going towards the gate.
“Where are we going, ‘cause I was actually enjoying the pool-”
“The beach.” I mutter quickly, trying to keep my composure.
“We’re going to the beach, bye!” She bids them goodbye, and that’s when I hear Jake shouting.
“Meet you there because
we’re a couple
, Amanda’s gonna be there,
and
we’re gonna be
adorable!
”
* * *
We lay our stuff in the sand, and I take off my clothes, determined, heading for the water. And yes, Jake was right, Amanda is here right in her daddy’s VIP section, close to where I decided to drop our stuff.
“Aren’t you a sight for sore eyes?” An
unknown
male voice shouts, and I’m ready to nut-attack someone when I see it’s Tanner.
Allison rolls her eyes and then practically throws herself at him, having their little couple snuggling session in front of the whole beach.
That’s my cue to leave.
I go near the water and touch the water with my feet, seeing if it’s cold or not. Laughter is heard all around me, from small children to their grandparents. Water splashing around, everyone happy and tan, Jake sprinting my way- Wait-
I’m left with my mouth wide open, my hair a mix between wet and dry and tangled, and my hands in the air as someone who was expecting it, but at the same time
was not.
“You are
so
predictable.”
I already knew he was going to do that. He always does that.
“Ah, but did you get out of the way? No.” He opens his muscled arms as if he is daring me to do the same thing. And now I’m screwed. In the sunlight, his torso is even more- I can’t even describe it. “You just
love
my belly area, don’t you?” He laughs, getting too close and making my cheeks burn.
I groan and push him away, turning around and crossing my arms.
He touches my arm, and I side-eye him.
“Showtime.” He gently pulls me towards him and moves his mouth close to my ear, surely pretending to say something in my ear, but
good gracious
, if I didn’t just lose my self-respect as soon as he got down to my height to do that.
“
Master has given Dobby a sock. Dobby is a free elf.
” He mimics Dobby’s high-pitched voice perfectly, and because I wasn’t expecting it, I snort and then release a laugh, covering my mouth immediately after making such an inhuman sound.
He laughs right with me, and it’s like all the exaggerated childlike anger we felt for each other five minutes ago dissipates into thin air.
I make the mistake of inching a bit closer, and our eyes make the mistake of looking at each other’s lips.
“
Is…
Is Amanda watching?” I glance between his eyes and his mouth while he, on the other hand, doesn’t even look around while saying, “Probably.”
“They seriously have to do this in front of the whole beach? There are kids here…” Riden says, indignant, making us push each other just enough to realize what we were about to do.
I search for Amanda, and she’s absolutely looking over, eyes full of hatred.
“Jake, up top!” Graham throws a football in Jake’s direction, and I immediately avoid it, like my life depends on it.
They start throwing it around, and I just dive next to them, and while trying to come back to the towel, Graham calls me.
“Hey, Madelaine, wanna join?”
Is he being serious right now? Has he seen me with a football in my hands?
Jake just shrugs, and Aaron tilts his head, waiting. Riden side eyes me, knowing very well how my motor functions work.
“Sure.” Might as well enjoy this, right? In the spirit of adventure.
He throws me the ball, and I surprisingly
catch it
and unintentionally smile, like a child.
I throw it to Aaron, and he receives it, impressed.
“Good throw.” He compliments, and I utter a
thanks
.
Oh my god,
I’m throwing a ball
, and it’s going well. For approximately five whole minutes.
“OW!” The ball hits me right in the face, and I immediately see Jake all up in my face.
“Are you okay? Are you bleeding? I swear to god,
Riden
-”
“It just- It’s sore.” I remove my hand from my nose and gently try twisting it. Still hurts a little, but it was mostly impact.
Jake sends a fulminating stare towards Riden.
“So sorry, Mads.” Riden tries, but Jake interrupts him with his hand.
“Don’t you think you’re over-”
He picks me up, bridal style, and I’m left speechless. I look behind at the boys, and they’re grinning and shaking their heads.
He’s determined, taking me to the towel, I assume, but he takes me to see the
lifeguards.
“West, I swear it’s nothing, it doesn’t even hurt anymore-”
“If Riden broke your nose, I will throw hands.” He says, narrowing his eyes, and I just give up.
“What happened?” A girl a bit older than us hurries to us, and before I can utter a word, Jake starts rambling.
“She might have a broken nose or something, even though it’s not bleeding, it can have some sort of hidden damage we don’t see-”
“She’s fine.” The girl dismisses, looking at me closely. “If she had broken her nose, she wouldn’t be moving it right now, and it would
probably
be bleeding…”
“Sorry for wasting your time-”
“It’s her job, Brown.” He interrupts again. “Thanks for everything.” And then he takes me to the towels and lays me there, finding a spot right next to mine.
“Are you sure it doesn’t hurt?”
“Yes.”
I can’t even feel it anymore, to be honest. I see the guys coming closer, and then my conversation with Aaron in the pool emerges in my head.
“Since when do you wanna be a singer?” I ask while he takes out a freshly cut watermelon from his bag.
“Since ever, I guess. I don’t know, only playing guitar wasn’t enough for me.” He shrugs, stuffing his mouth with watermelon and passing me some.
“Why don’t you perform at the talent show? I mean, one of your songs.”
“How do you know that?”
“I-” By mistake, I give it away by looking at Aaron as he’s sitting in front of us, the rest of the boys forming a circle.
“Dude! You told her about my songs?” He smacks Aaron on the chest, and the latter smirks.
“What don’t tell me she hasn’t heard Golden Eyes?” He asks sarcastically, knowing damn well I haven’t.
Jake grabs his face like he’s faced his own personal rock bottom, and for the second time since I’ve known him, I watch him squirm. I think this is one of those few things he’s insecure about, like having to repeat the first grade, which he did.
“I think it’s cool.” I interject, and the boys all look at me like I came out with a wild statement.
“Look, personally, I’m just a little worried that someone who listens to DJ Khaled unironically aims to be a rockstar, but that’s just me.” Aaron puts his hands out, never a serious bone in his sarcastic body.
“That was a
phase
.” It really wasn’t. I still hear him playing him sometimes.
But why are they all being jerks? I do think that’s awesome. It’s like he’s closing up before my eyes, but boys are always so used to bullying each other that I bet they don’t even realize Jake is feeling like this.
“No, really, it takes some real self-discovery to know what you wanna do for the rest of your life so clearly.” I shut them up in no time, and they all drop the discussion.
I start eating my watermelon piece, while looking at each of them, while they just stare at me, slightly wide-eyed.
“Guys, I think he wants me to be his
girlfriend
.” Allison bursts in, sitting next to me in her towel.
Jake’s eyes widen, Riden gasps and lets out an indignant
Huh?!,
and I make a not-so-pleased face. Jake hits me in the ribs with his elbow, and I stop making that constipated face.
“Oh wow!” I fake enthusiasm. “That’s- Great!”
“I mean, I don’t know, isn’t it too soon? He’s going to town now to prepare for this special date. He said that from 6 PM I can go to town, because it will
all
be ready.”
“Okay…”
Everyone stays quiet, taking it all in.
“But do you want to date him?” I break the silence, and everyone turns to her.
“I don’t know…” She shrugs, and I purse my lips.
I’ve always thought Allison should slow down the dating scene and just… Spend time with herself. Learn to live with
herself instead of burying herself in a trashy guy and just never being
alone
. But I just don’t go around throwing unsolicited advice, especially considering I’ve had zero boyfriends, my dad’s a single dad, and I base all my knowledge on romance novels and movies.
When we later get to the town square and drop Allison off, she throws me a tilted smile, and I let out for only Jake to hear.
“One day, she’ll realize she’s worth more than just being someone’s girl.”
OceanofPDF.com

31
Smashing It as a Girlfriend
Don’t Go Breaking My Heart by Elton John and Kiki Dee
blasts through the car’s speakers while Jake and I practice for the talent show.
The Moron pack is leaving this night, and that got me thinking. Jake has done a lot for me, and the way his friends can sometimes dismiss him as if he doesn’t have feelings
enraged
me. Then I remembered one of our conversations where I called him out for not getting mad. So, in some type of effort, I’m taking him to a rage room just outside Mailview, as a surprise. My dad took me there probably a year after my mom left, and I think I don’t need to say I used it to my full potential. I’ve rarely been there ever since, but if I’m really worked up and just about to burst emotionally, I find a way to get myself in there as a way of coping.
Impulsively, I stop the song, and he shuts up.
“Hey, that was my part!”
“You have to talk to them. Riden and the boys?” I clarify, and he huffs while resting his elbow on the window. “They shouldn’t joke about something so important to you, and it clearly affects you.”
“Look, this is just how guys are. We bully each other about everything, but defend each other with our lives. Riden has gotten in trouble for sticking up for me with other guys-”
“I’m not talking about Riden. He jokes, but he also acknowledges your talent. It’s a healthy balance. The other two- Just,
god
, I’m pissed off just by thinking about their condescending tone.”
He turns to me, crossing his arms.
“You’re making this a bigger deal than it is.”
“No, I’m not. Even though you can be very arrogant and cocky, and annoying about some things, you’re fragile about your dream. I listened to the songs West, you’re good, they have substance.” I glance at him while turning the wheel.
“You
what?!
”
“I bribed someone, but it doesn’t matter. The point is, you’re more than the joker you let everyone see, and you’re more talented than you let others believe.” We’re getting closer to the place. “I may be a bitch sometimes, and many people may see me as this closed-off person, but I never hide what I like and my passions. The stuff that makes me who I am.”
“Whatever.” He shrugs, doing something close to pouting because he knows I’m right.
“It’s like, you only let people see the tip of the iceberg and show yourself as a shallow, flirty jock, who parties too much, when there’s so much more depth to you that it could touch the bottom of the ocean.”
He doesn’t say anything, so I glance at him, and he’s smiling, a quiet smile while looking at me.
“What?”
“You’re very ferocious when defending someone.” Pause. “I never thought I’d be one of those people.”
That- Yeah, why
was I
so worked up? Maybe this is living proof that we’ve really become friends. I’ve only ever spoken like this about my family and Allison.
I turn red in no time, and I don’t know why, but I feel embarrassed. For getting so worked up about him like I would with a worldwide issue.
I press play on the song and start singing slowly, trying really hard to cool down and ignore the fact that I’m visibly red.
I pull up to the parking lot, and he looks around, visibly confused. We’re in one of those small malls with a variety of stores, so there’s no hint whatsoever.
He follows me, hands in his pockets, strutting behind me.
I touch the handle to Smashing It! and the complaining starts.
“A rage room?”
“Would you trust me?”
“I don’t know why you keep insisting, you know, most of the time I find your stubbornness endearing, but this time-”
“Hey, Dustin.” I greet, letting him ramble to himself.
“Hi, Maddie.”
Jake stops, looks at Dustin, the handsome, older PT, and puts an arm around me.
“Hi, Jake, her
boyfriend
, nice to meet you.” He extends his hand, and I try really hard not to grab the bridge of my nose.
Dustin laughs, a deep laughter, and Jake shifts beside me, adjusting his posture.
“The room’s ready for you. It has been a slow summer, not enough mad people in the world.” He smiles, ever so charming, and I interject before Jake does.
“Believe me, right now, we count as about a hundred.”
Dustin points at me, laughing like a dad, and Jake is still eyeing him suspiciously.
He passes us the liability waiver, and I just sign it off and pass the pen to Jake.
“So, you’re coming in with us?” Jake asks.
“No, man, I usually leave the smashing to the customers.” Dustin dismisses.
“Pity…” Jake mutters under his breath.
When we’re done in the lobby, Dustin takes us to our weapons and stretches his arm out, letting us pick our delicacy.
“I’m really feeling the crowbar today.” I reach for it and take it.
I look at Jake, waiting for him, and it’s like he’s still not quite sure how he ended up here.
“The baseball bat, I guess.”
Dustin then takes us to get suited up with our coveralls, safety helmets, and gloves.
As soon as we’re geared up, Dustin checks it and then lets us in.
“Any song requests?”
“The usual. Oh, unless…” I let Jake weigh in, and he dismisses it with his hand.
Dustin throws a thumbs-up and then closes the door.
“So we just-”
Breaking Dishes by Rihanna
starts blaring through the room, and Jake stops wide-eyed.
I’m no stranger to this, so, holding on to my crowbar, I dive for an old TV, immediately breaking the visor. I hit one or five times and then stop, gasping for air and gesture for Jake to do something.
He shrugs, confused, and I go to the corner of the room, pick up a dish, and throw it at him, no warning. As a reflex, he swings the bat and breaks it right off. And from there, it’s like I unleash
a monster. He keeps telling me to throw more until there aren’t any more dishes, so he just moves on to the old electronics surrounding the room. I leave him there and start smashing stuff myself, and that’s when I, too, become a rage-consumed girl. Every shitty thing that happened to me crosses my mind, and I break things until I physically can’t anymore.
Half an hour was spent in no time, and abruptly, the music stops.
Jake and I look at each other, chests rising up and down, and find the storm in each other’s eyes.
“That was…”
“Yeah.” I agree, even though he didn’t utter a word.
Freeing. Amazing. Weight lifting.
I look intently at him and see his eyes glossing over and then well up.
“Oh, sorry, I don’t know-” He looks at the ceiling, blinking rapidly to keep the tears from coming.
“I get it.” I shrug, and he nods, shaking his head, still trying to keep him from releasing all the built-up emotion in him.
I take a deep breath and, without overthinking it, I throw my arms around him.
“For fuck’s sake, West, just cry.” I hold onto him, and for a few seconds, it’s like he’s too stunned to do anything.
And then… His arms envelop me, and nothing has ever felt quite so right in the world. He rests his chin on top of my head, but doesn’t exactly budge. We stay like this for what seems like forever, and I only know he did indeed cry when we finally break apart, and I look up to see him rubbing his eyes, a trail of tears down his cheek.
“Guess I don’t seem so uplifting in your eyes now, do I?” He laughs it off, and I punch his arm.
“Yeah, you’re right,
gross
, don’t ever talk to me again.” I pretend disgust, and he laughs quietly. “No, but seriously, the
moody, traumatized role is already taken, go find yourself a new one.”
“You don’t have to be that way, too, you know?” He gazes into me, and
wow, this is intimidating.
“It’s just easier to be angry all the time, so when bad things happen, you’re already kind of expecting.” I shrug, not even feeling like it’s too personal. For me, it’s just the universal truth.
“But when does that leave you time to be at peace?” He crosses his arms, and I purse my lips.
“It
doesn’t.”
We stand in silence for a few seconds until the intercom is heard.
“That was beautiful, man.” Dustin says, and Jake’s head snaps to where the sound came from. “I’m getting you out now.” And we hear the intercom shut off.
“He was
listening?”
Jake says, indignant, and I try not to laugh.
“He literally said a million times that he would be watching us and checking in.”
“Are you telling me that manly man who probably does charity shirtless photoshoots with puppies on his social media saw me
cry?
”
Laughter bubbles out of me, and Jake stresses before my eyes.
“Stop laughing, it’s not funny!”
I laugh even more, and the door behind us opens.
“You would have known if you weren’t too busy glaring at him.” I throw, smiling, before I exit the room, Dustin holding the door open for us.
He then helps us get cleaned off, and no one utters a word. I try really hard not to break into laughter each time Jake deepens his voice around Dustin.
We get out of Smashing It! and I let out my laughter, and it’s like, as much as he wants to pout, he can’t help laughing a little too.
We get in the car, and before I turn it on, he stops me.
“You were right.” His brief pain flashes across his eyes. “I don’t get angry, and honestly, it’s exhausting always being so optimistic all the time.” Pause. “This helped. Thanks.”
“You’re welcome.” I smile to myself and turn on the car.
“For the record, I don’t mind crying. It’s just really unfair to cry in front of that man.” Jake justifies, and I laugh.
I get it, if the roles were reversed and some beautiful, apparently perfect woman saw me falling apart and being an utter mess, that would wound my ego too.
“
And
I’m gonna talk to the guys tonight.” He adds, and that makes me happier than it should.
I turn on the radio, and
Hit Em Up by 2Pac
starts playing, and Jake and I automatically say the intro with him and rap every part of the song we can.
OceanofPDF.com

32
I Don’t Even Know What’s Happening
We’re two days away from my childhood being married. Literally. Linda and Patrick are getting married in two days, and so, as a courtesy and thank you, my dad and aunt invited them over for dinner. My aunt is
frantic,
to say the least. It’s like we’re having the Queen for dinner and not previous babysitters.
The garden just has to have white paper lanterns, a grand table with a magnificent towel, and
all
the chairs must be wooden. I’m not even risking telling her that when they babysat us, we didn’t even eat on plates. Napkins were more like it. My sister, cousins, and I are in charge of all of this; we should have done this in the morning or right after lunch, but after all, we are related and…
Delayed
. So, at 5:30 PM, we’re in the living room just chilling when my aunt bursts into the room.
“Madelaine Brown!”
I shiver at her tone. This isn’t good. Rather be running a marathon than have to deal with her wrath.
“Yes…” I respond, unsure. She narrows her eyes and whispers, a dangerous whisper, “You have three seconds to get off that couch and put the things outside!” Yeah…
It wasn’t a whisper anymore.
I shoot up from the couch and pass by her.
While I’m dragging the table to the spot, I see my aunt dragging my cousins by their ears, outside.
“How are we supposed to listen to you calling us-”
“When you rip our ears off!” They say alarmed.
We all set the table, lightning speed, and when I’m putting up the white lanterns in the trees — the little morons are useless, can’t reach the tree branches — a familiar face appears on the balcony from the other house.
“All that for me? You
shouldn’t
have.”
I sigh.
“Yes, West, because I know for a fact that you can’t go on with dinner without white heart paper lanterns surrounding you.” I sarcastically sneer.
He wholeheartedly smiles, laugh lines filling his face, and I whip my head towards the table so as not to let him see me flustered from how
fine he is.
I breathe out and fan myself trying to calm down, but also, this summer is especially hot in
temperature
.
A few seconds later, a fully showered and dressed Jake West appears beside me.
“What can I do?”
“Really?”
He looks around as if his being here isn’t obvious.
“If my aunt asks, you
begged
to help, and I had no other choice!” I tell him quickly, desperate for a shower and afraid that my aunt catches me passing the work to somebody else.
“Yes, ma’am.” He smirks, and I definitely have to go
now
. Even though I don’t want to. Not a little bit.
I’m reaching the door when I look behind, biting the inside of my cheek, and waiting for him to look at me.
“Thanks.” I say, when he finally does, and he nods.
“Oh-” I come back to the table to grab my phone to play music in the shower, and as soon as I reach it, I open it for a quick scroll in which my feed refreshes and a Dustin selfie appears with his puppy.
“Is that Dustin-”
“No…” My tone isn’t convincing, and I purse my lips so hard trying not to smile.
“I could swear I saw-” I giggle and then cover my mouth. The wheels of my feet rotate and make me move towards the door, with Jake shouting behind me. “I knew it! And he
does
do photoshoots with puppies! You sellout!”
I laugh, walking into the house and closing the door behind me, biting my lip.
Oh my god,
this is going to crush me when he ditches me for Amanda.
* * *
“Maddie! Are you listening to me?”
My aunt snaps her fingers in front of my face.
“What?” I ask, shaking my head.
She grabs a long, dark red dress and waves it in my face.
“What do you think?”
I usually don’t wear dresses because I’m more practical and don’t like the feeling of my inner thighs being all easy breezy, but that’s why I love long, princess-like dresses; I just never have the
occasion to wear them. And this one… This one is straight out of my dreams. Waist down, it’s voluminous and it reaches just above my feet, and it’s soft and shiny and so so beautiful. It’s a cherry red, and it couldn’t be more perfect. It’s simple; therefore, it’s me.
“You like it?”
“It’s gorgeous.” I let out a sigh, escaping my mouth.
“Right? It’s a Queen Anne medium puff-sleeved cherry dress.” My aunt describes perfectly, a smile brewing on her lips. “Alright then.” My aunt gets up and gets out of the room, reminding me to hurry up. Tonight we are just going to have a normal dinner, so I put on my normal clothes. An AC/DC black t-shirt and some white shorts. My hair is wet, but light waves are already starting to form. I don’t completely hate my wavy hair, I just… Like it better straight.
Everyone is already downstairs, so I leave my room. The front gate bell rings, and I run downstairs, almost tripping over on the last step. I open the door to the garden, and outside are our visitors. I was planning on running and hugging Linda, but her baby wouldn’t let me, so I ran to Patrick instead.
“I’m so excited!” I blurt out.
I stop hugging him, and when I turn around, to Jake, he has his arms spread out.
“I’m sorry, who are you marrying to deserve a hug?” I question, mocking, hands on my hips.
“You.” He grins, and my stomach twists so hard I think I’m about to falter.
This is terrifying.
“Yeah, right.” I chuckle, nervous laughter taking control of me, and I move on. “Thanks for helping with the garden, though.” I punch his arm like I just said,
Buddy
, and I want to
kill myself.
He ignores it altogether and places an arm around my shoulders, making my body have a reaction, before my mind can
even say anything. The feeling you get when you’re thirsty, and you have that one fresh gulp of water and feel it going down your body and spreading through it, giving you life? That’s what he does for me.
God, Madelaine, you keep forgetting that he likes Amanda, not you.
I’m his friend… At most, nothing else.
I get out of his arm and make my way to the table. Everyone’s sitting down, and I do the same. I decide to stay between Blake and Allison. The first doesn’t seem very satisfied with me, and I roll my eyes at his crush on Allison. Jake sits right in front of me.
It takes everything in me not to visibly let out the biggest disappointed sigh in my life, the hope that this could really happen slipping away into the air as I do so.
I’ve read all the books and seen every movie, and still,
I never learn
.
Why did I ever agree to this stupid fake relationship?
“So, when did you realise Patrick was the one?” Allison asks eagerly, and everyone around the table laughs.
“It was actually when we were babysitting those creatures.” Linda grins from ear to ear, pointing at Jake and me, and we look at each other half-smiling. “When we told them, Patrick and I were going to go to a college in a different country, little Maddie started to cry, and Patrick hugged her and said,
I’m not leaving you, I could never leave my mini me
and Maddie asked him if he was going to forget about her and he promised that every Friday he was going to watch their romcoms and call her every weekend. And he kept the promise. That was the moment I knew I deeply loved him, and there was no coming back.”
“It wasn’t a romantic moment?” Paige asks out of the sudden.
“I guess not. I guess it was his dedication and his kindness towards others.”
I’m so happy that I could cry.
“It can’t be
that
simple.” Brandon rolls his eyes. I turn to my dumb cousin who is in front of his brother.
“I hate to say it, B, but when you know you…“ I trail off, feeling helpless, and lift my eyes without wanting to, to find him already looking at me. “
Know
.”
The rest of the dinner went from talking about kids’ disasters to kids’ names to love. It was
always
these three topics. Honestly, I was getting tired by the end of the dinner. All these stories, all these memories, all these quotes, all this
love
. It just makes me think. And those thoughts make me look at Jake. He’s looking at Patrick while he talks about… Something. He looks down and then slowly moves his head in my direction. I don’t even try to pretend I wasn’t looking at him. He represses a smirk and gives me
the
look. Eyes intense and jaw clenching. You see, what is the
need
to look at me that way? I already like him, but with that look, it could quickly make me go from
like
to… No denying,
love
. He just messes with me in a way no one should be messed with.
I’m so mad at him for putting me through this, even though I agreed. He likes Amanda and sees me as his friend. But then asks for hugs, looks at me with those hazel eyes, and sings with me, dances with me, and does practically
everything
with me. The other day, he even called himself my boyfriend to Dustin, even though we weren’t in town and no one would know. I mean, way to go, West… Just continue to confuse me, it’s okay. It’s
fine
. Except it’s not okay and it’s not fine. It’s not fair. That’s-
“Mads!” Blake whisper-yells.
“What?” I look around, and everyone is looking at me.
“I was asking how the babysitting was.” Linda asks, curious.
“Oh, it was… Fine.” That’s one word for it. “Weird, really. Definitely some sort of deja vu.” I shrug, playing with the strawberry in front of me with the fork.
“I thought it was more fun than
fine
.” Jake speaks, putting himself comfortable in his chair.
“What did you do?” Linda turns to our sisters.
“You know, games and movies. Surprisingly, the babysitting was nice.” Alana says.
“Yeah, the lovebirds handled it well. Well, they could have been less
clingy
-”
“What is that supposed to mean?” I let out angrily. Frankly, the anger was just a buildup from seconds ago, and it got super defensive.
“Oh,
please
. The flour fight, making both of you end up on the kitchen floor, all goofy-smiling at each other.” Blake lets the entire table know, directly looking at me, loving the attention he’s receiving.
“Oh, when we were singing in the kitchen. Jake was always looking at you, Maddie!” Paige reminds.
“When you basically slept through the movie with your head on his shoulder. He couldn’t stop shushing us the whole movie, again, always looking at you.” Brandon lets out, disgusted.
I could be buried right now. I’m scarlet red, shrunk in my chair. I feel so exposed. This can’t get any worse.
“And that’s not even the more disgusting thing we’ve caught them doing.” Blake laughs, but suddenly realizes what he said and covers his mouth with a slap.
Everyone at the table goes silent. I can’t even look up anymore.
“What happened?” Paige asks, curious.
“Oh, right, you weren’t there!” Brandon reminds. “They were just eating their faces off on the couch.” He informs, definitely not reading the room.
My father chokes on a strawberry and starts to cough
a lot
. My sister kicks Brandon under the table, and he shouts.
So it did get worse.
“In front of the children, Madelaine?
Shame
.” Allison points out, dragging that last word. That girl has no trouble embarrassing me.
“I already knew.” Riden shrugs.
My eyes widen.
“You told him?!” I ask, shocked.
“I-I-” It’s the first time I look at him since my little depressing thoughts, and he looks embarrassed, almost red. This could be so funny if I weren’t involved.
“You know, Maddie, as a mom, I want to scold you so bad.” Aunt Lori starts, but then the tips of her mouth start to go up. “But as your aunt and former teenager,
respect
.” She hits her chest, smirking.
“MOM!”
“LORI!” My father and my cousins shout at the same time.
Linda is with her arms crossed, a little bit mad, and Patrick is with his face near hers, smirking.
“Don’t you think that’s enough proof? I won.” He states, pleased.
Emily and Joey are enjoying the show. They probably expected this from their son, but my dad… He looks
stunned
. Like the math doesn’t add up.
“I’m going to clean the dishes.” I blurt out, getting up. Jake also gets up.
“I’m going too.” He says.
“Oh
no no no
.” My dad laughs dryly. “You’ll stay here with me.” My dad points a finger at him. Like Jake and I would do anything in the
kitchen
. Honestly…
“Yes, sir.” He speaks, scared.
Never in this lifetime did my dad talk to him like that, and never did he respond with
sir.
“Jesus Christ,
John
.” My aunt admonishes her brother.
“This is all just too good.” My best friend giggles, a hand covering her mouth, and Riden snorts.
“You.” I point at her. “If I can’t take him, you’re coming with me.”
“Alright!” She cheerfully says.
I sigh and drag her by the hand, forgetting about the plates.
“I have to admit something.” I woefully say to her.
“You’re falling for him.” She crosses her arms.
“Uh, no. I
like
him. Not there yet.” I think out loud.
“Yeah, I don’t think so.” Alls disagrees.
“I’m so frustrated!” I groan. “To top it off, he likes another person.” Pause. “
It’s not fair.
” I whisper.
Tears start to form in the corner of my eyes. Allison hugs me.
“What did I get myself into?” My voice cracks. “How am I even going to the wedding tomorrow with
him
and act clingy and super in love, knowing that it’s all fake to him and not to me. I thought I could be different. I thought I wouldn’t feel anything for him. I thought I had a settled wall. He climbed it and passed it so easily, it’s not fair!” I say again, fully ugly crying. “I mean, my therapist said I was a masochist, but I didn’t think I was also stupid!”
“Mads, look at me.” She grabs my shoulders. “You are my best friend, and you will get past this. If I were you, I would just call it off and then let time heal. Even though that’s a stupid decision.”
I get off her and look dumbfounded at her.
“I think it’s a solid decision. It’s a wonderful one. It’s great. It’s
ideal
.” I reason.
“It’s
stupid
because he obviously has feelings for you!”
“That’s a lie. Don’t you try to put those thoughts in my head.” I say seriously, looking into her blue eyes.
Her face suddenly darkens.
“Fine. Stay oblivious forever, but don’t call me a liar. I know what I saw, and I know what I heard.”
This is not ending the way it should. Well, it’s not my fault for being the way I am. And it’s not my fault that she sees things that aren’t there.
“
Fine.
” I say defensively.
“
Fine
.” She says back, walking out the door.
That night I slept in my old room, sparing me from another speech or more disdainful scowls, from her or my traumatized dad.
OceanofPDF.com

33
I Do (Jake Cries)
I wake up, wondering why Allison’s snores aren’t drilling my ears, and then I remember we’re not currently speaking. Eye rolling and scoffs are the only interactions. This should be over by now, I mean, Thursday has already passed, and it’s Friday, the day of the wedding. This “fight” is stupid.
When I come down for breakfast with gym pants and a t-shirt, and let’s consider the fact that it’s already 2 PM, Allison is already there, with Riden and Jake.
“Riden, West. Sunny morning, isn’t it?” I ask, grabbing a piece of bread.
“Why are you mad at each other again?” Jake asks with his mouth half full.
Allison and I look at each other and remain silent. Even though we’re behaving like five-year-olds, we don’t ever break our trust in each other.
“Because Madelaine is stubborn.” Allison spits out, not revealing anything important.
“And Allison is dramatic and delusional.” I spit back.
“Who slept in the other room? Ah, that’s right.
You
. Who’s dramatic again?” She questions, not seated anymore.
“Do you think that I could bear my best friend sending me disdainful looks and sounds?” I raise my voice, anger boiling in my skin.
“And do you think I like to do so?” She asks back, appearing angry, but her voice does not go as high as mine. “Do you think I could bear seeing my best friend’s heart being shattered because she is too stubborn to see the truth?” She returns in the same tone.
Jake and Riden feel like they shouldn’t be hearing this conversation. I can see it by the way they are looking at each other and the way they shift nervously in their chairs.
“But it’s not your job to worry.” My voice lowers, almost whispers.
“Like it’s not my job to worry about you having a breakdown in a freaking castle?” She asks broken and betrayed.
“H-How do you know that?” My eyes widen, and I turn to the one person who knew. “You told her?” I say, my voice cracking.
Jake’s posture turns straight, and he looks at me worriedly.
“It slipped. I-”
“It doesn’t matter.” Allison interrupts. “Every fucking time I try to talk about your mother, you won’t open up! And then you go and open up to a boy you couldn’t even stand at the beginning of this summer?”
Jake agrees, pursing his lips and head going to the side, siding with her argument.
I let that sink in. It is messed up.
“I’m sorry.” I sincerely say to her. “I’m sorry for not opening up to you; you are one of the most important people in my life,
but I can’t be sorry for not believing something you do.” I shrug, sighing.
Riden gets up and drags West outside, giving us space. Like a reasonable person. Now,
Jake
made a face that screamed the investment he was having in our fight. Like he was looking for something in between the lines.
“I’m sorry, too.” Allison says, looking down. “I can’t force you to believe it
, even though it’s really obvious-
” She stops as soon as she sees my stare. “Right. I just think you deserve more than you set for yourself.”
“I know.” I start to smile, and she looks up, and she starts to smile too. She rolls her eyes and then throws he arms around me, squeezing me like those grandmas who take your air out of you.
The ceremony is going to be at 5 PM, so I have three hours to prepare, one hour remaining for us all to hang out. So, after that hour passes, the boys leave for Jake to get ready, and the chaos in the household begins. I shower before the others realize they have to get ready, so I am now taking my time getting ready.
“Brandon, I swear to god I’m going to turn on the cold water!” My sister’s shouts can be heard through the hallway.
Allison and I laugh, and then she proceeds to do my makeup.
“So, a makeout session on the couch, huh?” Alls says, raising an eyebrow.
My hand freezes, and the Chapstick stops with it.
“The kids were doubting our thing, and they already had seen us kissing, so we had to raise the bar.” I explain, trying not to smile.
“How was it?” She smirks.
“It was…
Fake
. He put his thumbs over my mouth. But my first kiss was
very
real.” I sigh and start to trail off. “I wish he were a bad kisser, and he didn’t have good taste in music, and he
didn’t sing, and he didn’t have that hair and those
dimples
and those
eyes
…”
“And we’re smitten. Again.” Allison cuts in reasonably.
“You’re right.” I close my eyes. “I’m not ready for the reception. That’s the place where I’m going to have to be all in love.”
“I say, enjoy it while it lasts.” She says, widening one eye in front of the mirror, putting on mascara.
She does have a point, but there’s a flaw in enjoying. Because if I enjoy it, I might think it’s real and mutual, therefore, I can go from liking him to falling for him. And we don’t want that. We would want it if he fell for me, too. But, I’m the cheap thrill, not the real deal.
I shrug, not revealing my thoughts to Allison. After that, I straighten my hair and put on the usual jewelry. Just as I’m about to dress, Allison glues me to the chair and puts on more makeup. Between laughing and singing, we finish up, and I put on my beautiful dress. We are ultimately ready to go downstairs, where some people already are.
As Allison goes down the stairs, I hear male voices.
Jake
. I take in a deep breath and remind myself that I can do this. I can control my emotions, been doing it for years, only a couple more days won’t hurt me.
More
.
I hesitantly put my right foot on the step and then slowly go down the stairs. Jake stops talking when he looks at me, because the only words that can get out of his mouth aren’t even words.
Goddamnit. I look away, my cheeks the same shade as the dress.
“Beautiful…” He breathes out, and I almost didn’t hear it. But when Allison mutters something to him, I definitely don’t hear it either. He’s wearing a tux, and I swear
Hopelessly Devoted To You by Olivia Newton-John
started playing. It’s like a never-ending staring contest, seeing who budges first. Turns out my
brain was frozen, and I was just on autopilot going down the stairs, so I continued, and when I got to the last step, I tripped over.
Steady arms catch me just in time. My heart doesn’t understand the difference between tripping and dying, so it’s beating crazy. This fall could’ve ruined my dress, my makeup, or I could’ve broken something. Sometimes I hate being clumsy, but as I’m holding onto his arms, I couldn’t be happier for it.
He gets me on my feet, still not releasing me, and his intense gaze turns into a mocking one.
“Now Brown, falling for me this quickly?” Jake speaks, his signature smirk wearing his face.
I smirk back but only to mask the panic that was building inside me, because I have a feeling that at the end of this day, he’ll be right.
“Jake West, that is the most predictable pun you have ever made.” I crack up, his arms still around me.
“I try my best.” He winks, and I shake my head, smiling.
“If you two are done over there, you kind of have a wedding to attend.” Riden interrupts, his face screaming the humor he found in the situation.
Jake coughs, looking away, and I get out of his arms.
When we got to the church, it was just like I imagined. It’s simple, but with white everywhere and enough decoration. Ribbons on the benches, flowers everywhere you could possibly fit them, and a ton of well-dressed people.
We sit down in the third row and wait. Not much time later, the church is packed, and Patrick is already at the altar. His red hair is all neat, and his brown puppy eyes practically shine. His whole face is light, and his freckles almost seem to be dancing with the smiles he gives every other second. The doors that lead outside open, and an even more gorgeous Linda steps in,
her father supporting. She slowly walks over to the top, and the ceremony starts.
This is quite boring. I lay my head on Jake’s shoulder, and I’m this close to falling asleep when the priest asks, “Vows?”
My head shoots up, and Linda and Patrick look at each other, beaming so widely, then Patrick speaks.
“I didn’t prepare anything because I’ll have every single day of our lives to say that I love you, and remind you why I married you. And for the record, it’s because you’re awesome.” He softly looks at her eyes, and her face melts.
I look to my left, and Jake’s eyes are watering. He moves his hands and rubs his fingers against his eyes, then blinks a few times, making the watering stop. I gently rest my head on his shoulder, slowly, as if our bubble could burst if I moved too quickly. His head shifts above me, and I feel his lips rest on top of my head. For a few seconds, I close my eyes and let this be real. Jake then lays his chin on top of my head, and I smile, content. That’s when I hear a scoff behind us.
Amanda
. Of course. He ever so slightly smirks. He did it for
her
. And supposedly, I did too. We hear clapping and see the bride and the groom walking down the aisle, scrunching their noses at each other and goofy smiling. I totally forget about what happened a second ago and clap as hard as I can with everyone, containing every bit of emotion I can inside.
OceanofPDF.com

34
Bangerz Really Is A Hit To The Head
Mr. Jones made his huge backyard and land available for the reception to take place. So when all the guests go through Mr. Jones’s house onto the backyard, all we can see is a gigantic white tent.
I’m really excited to go inside. I have never been to a wedding before, but I do know that the reception is the fun part.
Linda and Patrick get in first, and when I get in, I feel mesmerized. Tiny lights all over the place, tables covering the sides and ends of the tent except the right side when we come in, where there is a stage and sound equipment, leaving the middle empty for a dance floor. And the floor is marble. I turn to Mr. Jones and ask.
“How did you put marble on the grass?” I feel like a child asking this question. My eyes are twinkling with curiosity, and my innocent smile is plastered on my face.
“Ms. Brown, I have had this tent for over 20 years. I do events here.” He dryly explains, looking at me as if I were an idiot. But his face quickly changes when Miss Patty comes in with her arm tangled with Jake’s. I put a hand in my mouth, trying so hard not to laugh. I have to get out of here.
Since everyone is still distracted by the decoration, I go and sit on one of the tables right in front of the dance floor. Soon after, Jake, Alana, and Lindsey join me, and we lay our stuff on top of it so that the people know the table has already been taken. There’s equipment to sing and a DJ. I guess that the equipment is from the other events. The DJ steps in and informs on the microphone.
“Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Mr. and Mrs. Byrne.”
How Would You Feel by Ed Sheeran
fills the tent, and Linda and Patrick start to sway right away. They’re smiling so widely that their energy just spreads across the whole place. Their foreheads touch, and he whispers something to her ear, and she just laughs along with him. He spins her around just like he’s showing her around, showing people how lucky he is to have such beauty. He then spins her into his arms again, because at the end of the day, they belong to each other. They are too cute to even be real. I can see them, old, walking hand in hand through the streets, enjoying the sun, without worries in their lives because they’re old people. Old people in love. I bet that their spark will never go out either.
The song ends, making everyone clap.
Time of Our Lives by Pitbull and Ne-Yo
starts to play. I fumble with my sneakers, trying to trade my red high heels for my white Converse, because
this is my jam.
I then grab Lindsey’s hand and drag her to dance to her dismay — she loves this song, she’s just being a pre-teen about it — and Alana is not far behind us.
The crowd that gathered on the dance floor starts to jump, so we jump too. I look over at Jake, and he’s in deep thought, staring into the distance. That’s not the mood for a wedding. I’m going over there as soon as the song ends. My sister, Alana, and I look like crazy girls, but in the middle of all these crazy people, you can’t really tell. Time of Our Lives gets replaced by
Burnin’ Up by the Jonas Brothers
, and I fulfill what I had in mind when I looked at our table. I run to the table and say over the song, “You are coming with me.”
I grab his hand and lead him to the middle of the dance floor, where the girls and I were. The chorus is passing, and I look around. Amanda is at the table in the front, too. And she can see us. I grab Jake’s hand and pull him closer.
Joe Jonas’s voice sings, and I scream the lyrics near Jake. He’s staring me down, surprised but laughing. When Big Rob’s vocals appear in the song, I start to rap the lyrics immediately, without missing a beat. I didn’t know many Jonas Brothers songs, but this was always one of my favorites because it had that rock vibe, and my dad could also stand this one, too.
The chorus comes, and Jake is laughing at me, while I’m screaming the lyrics. We didn’t have time to discuss anything when
Hips Don’t Lie by Shakira
fills the tent.
“Somebody is watching us.” I discreetly indicate Amanda’s table, and he shakes his head. When he gets to me, I move my hips in a different way and then stop, only to lean my back against his chest, and I put his hands on my waist. We dance with one another, and I must admit I’m not sucking at this; I actually move quite well. He’s not bad either. He moves at the same time as I do. I turn around and can’t help but stop being all compelling and just sing the lyrics freely without putting on a show. I sing and dance, keeping my distance this time and just having fun. We are face-to-face, and he’s completely speechless on how I managed to quite literally dance glued to him and then
turn normal within seconds, but still, he smirks. We stay the rest of the song like this, and as the song finishes, I pull his shirt and pull his lips to mine. I open my mouth a bit, and we remain like this for a good five seconds, until I pull his chest and leave him stranded.
“For Amanda.” I justify, shrugging, and my confidence slips away.
After these three energetic songs, the DJ switches to some nice instrumental and invites us to eat at the now open buffet.
Did I- Just kiss him? …With
tongue?
I really hope nobody saw that…
* * *
As it turns out, my dad spent all of dinner glaring at Jake, and I kept slowly dying and dying a little more by the second.
Was that transparent? What if Jake can see right through me? Is a rejection imminent?
Oooooh, I hate being vulnerable!
I just have to pretend it never happened. Manipulation at its finest.
As he senses I’m having a crisis, he gets up, all of us already having finished our food, and holds out his hand.
Adore You by Miley Cyrus
starts playing, and something in me pushes me to take his hand. Call it what you want, self-destruction, masochism, weakness… I already heard it all from my therapist.
He places himself right in the middle of the dance floor, and only a few couples are swaying by our side. I naturally put my hands around his neck, and instead of putting his hands on my hips, he wraps them around my lower back.
“For someone who has never dated anyone, you sure know how to put a guy out of breath.” Jake’s hazel eyes intensely lock mine.
I clear my throat and say, “I know how to piss off Amanda. It’s my superpower.”
“Right.” He lets out, his voice low and cracking. “She must have felt gut-punched then.” He laughs kind of forcefully, and I give him a tight smile back.
Punched.
“Why did you punch Blade?” I sincerely ask, and his eyebrows rise.
“Because he has a stupid name.” He whispers, joking, and I lightly push him.
“West.” I press, and he sighs.
“He was just being a jerk. It was a long time coming.” He shrugs, and I bite the inside of my cheek.
“He was talking about me, wasn’t he?” I glance at him, and he exaggeratedly nods.
“Course not! He was just- Talking shit about something very important to me, that’s it.”
I hum.
“Ah, so I guess I’m out of the picture.”
“Yeah, exactly.” He concurs, clearing his throat, and I nod.
I can’t let it go.
“What was it?” I question, and it seems like I caught him off guard.
He looks into me, as if seeing something apparently invisible to the human eye.
“I would tell you, but then I’d have to hypnotize you and erase your memory.” He sighs, and I roll my eyes.
“You’re impossible.”
“As opposed to you, who’s a four-piece puzzle?” He sarcastically retorts, and I fake glare at him. “Relax… I’ve always
liked the thousand-piece ones better.” A small smirk creeps into his face, and I drop my head, my cheeks flushed, and I try to keep it together.
“You’re beautiful.” Jake sighs while we’re still swaying to Miley Cyrus.
I look around, and Amanda is nowhere to be seen. He didn’t say it for show or to get some sort of emotion out of me.
“Allison really outworked herself this time with the makeup.” I say, looking down.
“You’re beautiful either way. Either now or when you’re snoring, mouth wide open.” It sounds like a joke, but he says it in the most solemn tone I’ve ever heard coming from him.
“Thanks, I guess. And I don’t snore.” I utter, trying so hard not to smile.
“Oh, you
so do
. I recorded it.” He tries pulling out his phone, and I reach for it right away, trying to take it out of his hands. He waves it above my head while I try to jump for it. He presses the screen, and loud, disgusting snores can be heard even with the music in the background.
“Jake,
that’s so embarrassing! Stop it!
”
He laughs and then stops the recording.
“You called me Jake.” He says impressed and I stutter.
“No- No, I didn’t. I don’t think-”
The widest smile fills his face, smile lines appearing, and everything, and my breath falters in defeat. His joy is contagious, but I’m really flustered and trying not to smile.
“You can smile, you know.” Jake states. “Wait, your face does know how to do that, doesn’t it?” He teases.
“It does know how to do that. Jerk.” I finally smile.
Jake gets hold of me again and looks at me with that look.
“Why do you look at me like that?” It gets out of my mouth.
“Like what?” He innocently asks back.
“Like, those shiny eyes and intense gaze.” I justify.
“You’re just- Addicting to look at.” Jake smiles, not looking directly at me, somehow helpless.
“Do tell.” I amusingly say, a smirk on my face.
He looks at me and returns the smirk.
“I do tell.” He flashes his hazel eyes at me.
I let my hand lightly pull his head to the side, making him laugh.
The chorus comes, and he brings me down, holding me so I don’t fall, and looks down at me, to then bring me up and make me spin slowly, only for me to end up back in his arms. The song ends, and I go back to the table.
I think I just realized something, and my brain just froze for a moment.
I sit down and put a hand on my forehead.
Breathe in and breathe out.
When I search for him, I find Amanda touching his arm and laughing at something he said.
No. Not him. Not my West.
I press the palms of my hands against my eyes.
God, he’s not mine!
He’s hers, he always has been. I agreed to this. Suck it up.
That’s when desperation and madness hit me in the head.
I look at him until he looks back at me, which only takes about half a minute. I mouth for him to come back, and he nods quickly, ending whatever conversation he was having with Amanda and making his way back to me.
“I want to jump from the diving board.” I get up from my seat, and he shakes his head, shocked to say the least.
“Now? I mean,
you want to jump from the diving board?
” He frowns, genuinely confused.
I’m sure my face looks manic right now, but I prefer bold.
“Now or never. Besides, it’s the deal. I drive Amanda nuts, and you help me with my list. There’s only one thing left.” I
lie, because honestly, this is my lazy attempt at having him to myself. Of making the best of it and just avoid the fact that I’m going to have to let him go.
His eyes go from surprised, to worried, to determined, jaw locked.
“Let’s go.”
I grab my purse, and he grabs his jacket.
I tell my sister we’re going for a night stroll and to warn our dad, and she nods, going back into conversation with Alana.
Jake takes my hand and doesn’t look back.
OceanofPDF.com

35
There’s No Going Back
You know, when you do something so exhilarating, you black out, and it’s just a distant memory. That’s what happens when my nerves consume me while Jake fast paces into his house to grab his bike and our helmets, when I get on top of it, and he makes us fly through the roads of Mailview. This time, I just assume, I’m holding onto him instead of the seat, and halfway to the beach, I lose all sense of myself and just spread my arms, feeling the wind touching my skin, my hair flying around the helmet, and my heart beating and syncing with the engine.
So intense I can’t even feel it anymore.
When we get to the beach, he stops the bike, lazily parked somewhere, because no one comes to the beach at night.
He leaves the jacket on top of it and takes his shoes off, and I remind myself to do the same. We take them out as quickly as possible, as if we slow down, we actually realize what we’re
doing. He loosens his tie, and I have to hold myself back from kissing him.
We lock eyes and just nod.
I start slowly running to the board, and he comes after me.
When we reach it, and as I’m climbing the first step, it hits me.
“This dress was really expensive, Aunt Lori is gonna kill me if I ruin it.” I look down at it, hesitation threatening to creep in, and Jake agrees.
“Yeah, this tux too.”
I glance at him and think,
fuck it.
I slip off the dress, leaving me in my bra and briefs. I lay my dress against a chair nearby, and when I come back, Jake is shamelessly staring me down. When he finds my eyes, he doesn’t leave them. Not when unbuttoning his shirt, opening it, and throwing it at the sand. This time, I stare shamelessly. Something about him, bare-chested under the moonlight, is doing something to my insides. He takes off his pants, and he’s wearing large briefs, as if he were wearing trunks.
It’s like we’re wearing bathing suits,
keep it together.
But it’s not, and we both know that.
I take initiative and start climbing the steps before I lose sight of what I came here to do in the first place.
“Stop staring at my butt!” I shout without thinking, knowing him all too well.
“Oh come on, it’s right here, it’s impossible not to!” He shouts behind me and makes me roll my eyes.
You can do this; you are not going to die. Older kids do this every summer. You can do this. It’s like a mantra, safekeeping me in my head. I just have to dive correctly.
I finally reach the top, and he’s right after me.
Only the street lights from afar light up the beach around us and some of the water, but the water… It’s black. Dark. Scary.
Oh my god,
what was I thinking?
“Mads?” My heart skips a beat at hearing my name coming from
him
. “You’re not getting hurt. Not on my watch.” He extends his hand, and I scrutinize it. Every edge, every scarp, every curve, until I take it, in one big breath.
“Do you trust me?”
“Yes.”
He remains facing me and makes us walk towards the end of the board.
“You want to do this?” He gazes deep into my eyes, and before my brain can interject, my heart does.
“Yes. Now or never, right?”
Which is stupid because I could just enter the stupid contest like a normal person. But love makes you do crazy things. I finally get it.
He nods. We inch to the very edge until we’re almost touching it.
“One.” He counts, and I take a deep breath.
“Two.” I say, and a familiar smirk slips into place.
“Three.”
We both jump, and he hugs me close to him, our bodies remaining straight as we fall. My heart beats wildly inside my chest, but I don’t have enough time to react because in no time, we hit the water, and I feel his arms slipping away slowly, releasing me.
I immediately start swimming up, an insane amount of rush inside me. When I reach the surface, I take in the air and look for him, who’s right in front of me.
“I can’t believe we just did that.” I mutter, shocked, the slowest smile arising in my face. Rush is still driving me insane. I throw my arms around him, and he hugs me right back.
I pull back, beaming, and our eyes trap each other, no way of getting out this time.
“Jake?” I almost whisper, our eyes never betraying us.
He hums, coming closer.
“That day… When you kissed me.” I look between his eyes, his lips, and his wet hair. “I wasn’t mad at you. I was,” I feel like I need to take a deep breath. “Mad at myself. For wanting more.”
His eyes dig into mine, and I feel the weight of this confession down my spine.
“Yeah?”
Gradually and almost unnoticed, he comes closer to me, nothing surrounding us but the dark water and street lights in the distance.
I nod and bite my lower lip, my eyes not sure where to look. Our noses touch, and I feel his mouth closer to mine, a grain of sand keeping the distance between them, I’m sure.
“What are we doing?” I whisper into his lips, eyes closed, and his mouth touches mine.
“Something I’ve been wanting to do for a very long time.”
My legs falter beneath me, and my breath does too. His mouth covers mine, and my body gets infused with a rush of adrenaline I’ve never felt before, not even minutes ago, when we jumped. My legs wrap around his body just so I don’t sink, and his arms envelop me, not leaving any space between us. This kiss is different than the first one. It’s slower, not so rushed, or to prove a point. In my opinion, it’s even more breathtaking. Even though the water is cold, I feel my skin burning, my cheeks about to combust. He moves down to my chin, and then my jaw, and then my neck to just below my ear. I bury my fingers in his hair, and after one small bite to the earlobe, I turn his face to mine, not ready for it to be over. This time, I take matters into my own hands and leave a trail of kisses over his mouth, on his laugh lines, on his cheek, on his jaw, and because I can’t take it anymore, on his lips again. His hands grab my back like his life depends on it, and I refuse to let go of his hair.
He takes hold of my mouth once again and molds it to do whatever he pleases, and I let myself be. I’ve read a lot of romances, and I’ve seen him kissing other girls, but somehow it seems like this tops every scene I’ve ever read and everything I’ve ever seen. He does that thing with his tongue again, and I’m caught off guard and inexplicably laugh.
“I knew you liked that.” He grins against my lips, and I do everything in my power to stop laughing and let him go on. And so he does.
I’m about to lose myself completely for the third time since he kissed me when I stop us, foreheads touching, breaths faltering, greed wanting more.
“Jake, I think I lo-”
A flashlight blinds us.
We both stop, frowning and afraid to look at the light.
“Shit.” He utters, and
I’m scared to look.
“I should’ve known it was you, West, but- Wait, is that
Madelaine Brown?
” Sheriff Coleman points the flashlight between us, with apparent concern and clear
trauma
on his face.
“Oh my god, this cannot be happening…” I look down, ashamed, my cheeks turning red for sure.
“Sheriff Coleman, long time no see!” Jake greets, and I push him.
“What?”
I narrow my eyes at him.
“Oh god, I knew this was a bad idea! There was a deep voice in my head telling me- But no! Amanda had to touch your arm and make me go all crazy!” I cover my face, and I feel Jake’s mouth close to my ear.
“Come on,
you’ve never felt more alive
.” I glance at his wild eyes. I hate how he’s doing something to me. And I can’t decide if I want to smile or drown him.
The second one.
I throw myself at him, and he’s so caught off guard that he sinks immediately, so I push his head down for a few seconds, that is, until he gets hold of my legs and pulls me under too. He grabs my head underwater, and his thumb touches my lip, and then so do his lips, for a quick peck. As soon as he breaks apart, I get over myself and swim upwards.
“Stop that!
What’s wrong with you?
The sheriff just caught us making out, and you’re-”
“Your turn.” And then he dunks me underwater, and I just aimlessly throw my arms around. He only keeps me there for a few seconds, and then I come back up.
Before I can do anything, the sheriff reminds us of his existence.
“I assume this is yours.” Coleman grips our clothes in his hands, and I suddenly remember that I’m only wearing underwear.
“This couldn’t get any worse…” I push him aside and cover my face.
“I’m sorry, officer, she’s not used to this life, as you can see.”
“I’m going to kill you!” And just before I throw myself at him again, the sheriff intervenes.
“Kids, just get in the car!” He orders, and we stop bickering, but he still throws water in my face and into my nose. I cough, and he runs in front of me.
“West!”
I swim towards the sand, and he’s already up, being covered by a towel the sheriff brought us in the meantime. Before I can get out of the water, the sheriff immediately turns around, but Jake remains the same.
“Do you mind?” I look pointedly at him, and he smirks.
“Not at all.”
“West!”
“Fine!
Jesus
, it’s not like I haven’t seen anything before!” He turns around, and I get out of the water, grabbing the towel at my feet. When I look up, I catch Jake glimpsing, and I, of course, shove him.
“
Pervert
.”
“Didn’t stop you from jumping me now, did it?”
The sheriff breaks us apart, each on each side, and gets us into the car.
We sit in the back, and the sheriff turns on the car.
“Who will we be taking first?”
“Wait, you’re not talking to my dad, are you?” I interrupt, and he grimaces.
“I’m sorry, kid, but swimming in your underwear at night is not allowed at the beach, you know that.”
Right. Fuck.
“I’ll leave
details
out.” He clears his throat, and I have this urge to hit my head against the window until I wake up from this nightmare.
“Well, I think ladies first, and we live on the same street, so I’m just a house ahead.” Pause
for stupidity to sink in
. “Unless you want me at yours.” He
winks
, and my face morphs into disgust.
“
Don’t
talk to me.” I warn, directing my last words to him.
“I’ll take that as a no.” He leans back against the seat and starts striking up a conversation with Coleman.
This is it. My dad’s gonna kill me, and on top of that, this was simultaneously the highest and lowest point in my life.
But is it bad that I still feel excitement in the depths of my heart? I was never crazy enough to do something like this, and now, Jake’s
right
. I’ve never felt more alive.
I sigh and look out the window, counting my days. After 15 minutes, we reach my house.
We get out of the car, and the sheriff rings the gate. Waiting for my dad feels like torture every second that passes. Finally, after a couple of minutes, there he is, still in his tuxedo, rubbing his face — surely he was sleeping on the couch waiting for me — and trying to make out the image in front of him. I grip the towel, not sure if I can look at him.
“Maddie, what- Are you okay?” He rushes to the gate and lays eyes on Jake. “Jake?”
“John, I’m sorry to disrupt your sleep, but I caught your daughter and Jake skinny dipping at the beach.”
I can see the moment the color drains from my dad’s face.
“We were in our underwear!” I blurt out. “Not
naked
…” I flinch, waiting for the response.
“Toby, leave them here. I’ll call Jake’s parents.” I see something stormy inside my dad’s eyes when he mentions Jake.
“Sure thing. Goodnight.” He leaves us, and my dad waits until he’s gone, to, well-
“Are you
out of your minds?!
” He opens the gate, and I get in. “And
you!
Skinny dipping with my daughter? At night? I know you, Jake, you’re the same as your dad, and you better hope I’m wrong or things won’t turn out in your
favor
.”
For the first time in my life, I’m seeing my dad genuinely mad. He scolds Lindsey and me, but he never yells or that vein that’s popping in his neck?
I didn’t know it was there.
“Dad-”
“You’re grounded.”
Yep, fair.
“And I’m going to call your mom, right now, just so I don’t rip your head off myself.” He points a finger at Jake and then turns towards the house.
I walk slowly behind him, and Jake catches up to me and pinches me in the stomach.
“
Jake!
” I whisper-yell, trying not to laugh. “Do you wanna
die?
” I smile up at him, and he smirks.
“Well, if dying is what it takes to touch you, then kill me now.” He kisses my cheek just before my dad turns around, and I try not to grin like a fool. I tried to be mad at him, I really did, but… As I’m looking at him, trying to keep his act together in front of my seething dad, and he winks at me, my heart skips a beat.
I never thought that would happen to
me
.
OceanofPDF.com

36
The Omen
“Dad.” I open my eyes, feeling tears down my cheeks.
The downside of sleeping pills? Very vivid dreams. Yeah, my dad died in this one, and I was visiting his grave, just absolutely lost.
Then the fact that I basically realized that I loved Jake last night didn’t help. He owns me in such a dangerous way.
I’m terrified.
And all my hopes that this day could turn around went to shit when the first thing I saw this morning, in the middle of the town square, was Amanda hugging Jake, an evident complicity between them.
What was I thinking? They have been each other’s person since they were twelve. I hated him throughout our lives and only became his friend this summer. I must be the only one who doesn’t want to see that they belong together. A deal is a deal.
I’m stuck in the middle of the road, staring down into the distance at them.
I hear a honk in the distance, and only when the driver starts shouting at me do I get out of the road.
When I look up again, Jake is jogging towards me.
Suck it up.
“Hey, is everything okay?” He frowns, looking at my face, and I pretend to rub my nose with my arm. “Were you crying?”
“Allergies.” I justify, hopefully convincingly. “What did Amanda want?” I ask.
“She was…” He looks behind and then back at me. “Begging to come back.”
“What you wanted, right?” I fake a smile, and he looks down, and then confusion crosses his face.
“Yeah, but last night-”
“Was a mistake.” I complete, and it’s like I just put up a barrier between us. “Us kissing was…” I prepare myself for the blow. “A mistake.” I let out, helpless. Something flashes in his eyes, but I’m too heartbroken to decode it. “I was high on adrenaline, and it was the last thing on the list, so you’re officially released from your duties.” I glance down, and he looks back at where he stood with Amanda and back to me.
“But before Coleman, you were saying something like I lo-”
“I loved that we jumped.” I take a deep breath in. “Closure, you know.” Except this is somehow the opposite of it. “She’s waiting for you.”
“Right.” He looks conflicted, and that kills me.
“I guess I’ll be seeing you, West.” I start walking backwards, and he watches me. “Later, for the talent show.”
“See ya, Brown.”
I turn around and the faucet to my waterworks breaks. Tears immediately start streaming down my face, and I start walking faster and faster.
I can’t come back home. They’ll start questioning everything. So I go to my comfort landscape, just a few roads ahead, where nothing but grass and trees will surround me. I text my dad quickly, telling him I’m going on a stroll.
When I get there, I choose my favorite tree, sit against it, and just let it all out. But still in the quiet and away from all civilization, I can’t bear to cry out loud. I’m too used to crying silently, which somehow hurts more. It’s like I want to get everything out, but never can,
no matter how hard I try.
I let my tears fall and stain my clothes until I feel like I’ve exhausted every single tear out of me. After this emotional discharge, I could never cry again, especially in the next few weeks, right?
…Wrong.
OceanofPDF.com

37
Trying Not To Butcher Elton John
After a while of doing nothing but crying, I decided to go check out the fair’s tents. Many people are hanging decorations to make their tents stand out, to make them different from the others. Tiny lights are hanging above me. I say hello to a lot of people when I see something that catches my attention.
Trent Gorben is dragging Amanda somewhere, but for the first time in my life, she doesn’t seem very excited. She almost seems
scared
. Feeling like that shouldn’t be happening, I walk fast to the back of one of the houses and peek at the scene.
“Trent, I don’t really want to do this right now.” She backs away, her face backed up against the wall.
“Of course you want to!” He starts to kiss her face, but she backs away.
“I said no.” She firmly says.
“Come on, you know you want to.” He backs her up against the wall, and her face shows panic.
I have to go there right now. My dislike for Amanda fades, and I walk even angrier to them.
“Amanda! There you are! I was looking for you.” I say with a fake smile.
They abruptly stop, and she looks at me, relief on her face.
“You’ve got to be shitting me… Since when are you friends?” He spits, irritated by the interruption.
“Since cowards like you exist.” And I smile, scrunching my nose ironically.
“Get out of here, Brown.” He already forgot about Amanda, and he’s walking over.
“No.” I get out as boldly as I can, knowing damn well I’m dying inside.
He glares and tries to take my wrist.
“That’s not very gentlemanly of you.”
He grabs it, and I do the only thing I have ever learned about self-defense for boys. I kick him in the balls, and he gets disoriented, falling onto his knees.
“Pathetic.” I utter to him. “Hope I never see your excuse of a person in front of me ever again.”
I go to Amanda, almost running, and take her arm, leading her far from there.
Oh my
fucking
god. That could’ve gone so badly.
What was I thinking?
I stop running with Amanda, and we’re in front of the ice cream place.
“Why did you help me?” Amanda asks reluctantly.
“Look, no matter how much we dislike each other,
no one
deserves to be treated like that.” I let out, looking at her by the corner of my eye.
“Thanks.” She says.
I nod and look at the fair. People are starting to appear and check out the tents and activities.
Where the hell is Jake?
Although I don’t want to see his face, I have to go get him. To do this one last thing.
I sigh and walk to his house. I start to get nervous as I reach it. This awful will to hurl everything in my stomach appears, and I breathe.
I just have to get in and take him to the stage.
I walk in and go upstairs. I pass by Alana in the corridor, and she nods. I open the door to his bedroom, and it’s empty. I hear water and realize he’s in his bathroom, probably taking a shower.
Now?
Seriously…
I sit in his bed and wait. Suddenly, music starts playing, and
You Give Love a Bad Name by Bon Jovi
bursts from the speaker inside, and I lie back and just listen. When the music ends, another one starts, but I can’t hear what song it is. And then he starts singing. Is he singing- Is he singing
One Direction?
After giving me shit for listening to them? This is going to be good.
I enjoy the mix between Jake’s voice and Harry’s voice when suddenly the bathroom door opens. I sit up straight, and I can’t help but smirk. When he sees me, he freezes, and the bridge to the song continues.
He desperately tries to turn off the song, and after a few seconds, he succeeds. I give him one look and break. I laugh so much it’s hard to breathe. He makes an “angry” face, and I laugh even harder.
“Okay, okay. I get it.” He says through gritted teeth.
“This is awesome.” I let out a sigh and smile.
“I like
one
song. That’s it.” He justifies, pointing a finger at my face.
“Let’s pretend that’s true.” I make a satisfied face, and he breathes out pissed off.
Wait a
goddamn
minute. It
seems
that he only has a towel around his waist, and I just noticed, and now I’m staring- That wet hair all messy and the water drops going down his stomach…
“Like what you see, Brown?” He smirks, looking down at me.
I look up, my cheeks burning.
“I-I’ll wait for you outside.” I cough nervously and practically run outside.
I stared so hard
. I face palm and sigh. And that’s when I remember last night. The same way we watched each other completely and unashamedly. I rest my head against the wall and close my eyes. Quit crying.
His door opens. He looks at me, and a little smirk comes out.
I get up fast and glare.
“Just shut up.” I say, and then I start to sing One Direction. “I’m never going to hear the end of this, am I?” He asks desperately.
“Nope.” I smile, and his eyes turn dark, as the conversation from this morning hits us right in the face. I avert my eyes and look forward.
“We’re good, right?”
“Right.”
But it’s not the same, and never will be again.
* * *
I gulp and look nervously at the stage. I’m hating past Madelaine right now for ever considering doing this. My hand starts to tremble as we reach the stage.
How could I ever have thought about singing in front of the village?
Jake talks to the band, and I nervously look around, seeing people coming in.
“Ready?” A voice in my head asks. Except it wasn’t a voice. It’s Jake. “Hey, look at me.” He puts his hands on my shoulders and looks me dead in the eyes. “It’s okay to be nervous, but you sing like an angel, so you shouldn’t be.” He says softly.
God, I hate him so much for touching me this way and being so gentle.
He tilts his head to the side and gives me a tiny smile. I can’t help it, and hug Jake. I throw myself at him and never let go of my tight grasp. I’m going to miss him too much, and this is the time to say goodbye, because after this song, it will all end. He puts his arms around me and holds me the same way. Except he is holding me because he thinks I’m nervous, and even though that’s true, I’m more broken than nervous. I control myself not to cry right now.
I am going in there and singing. When it’s over, I get out of here as fast as possible. Then I can cry. Again. I don’t want him to feel guilty for something we both agreed on.
“Let’s do this.” I say determined and looking up.
We get out of each other’s hold and go on stage. I avoid looking at everyone else except for him. The instrumental begins, and so does he. His voice takes me back to singing in the car when no one was watching. I close my eyes and sing my part. This is easy. I start to smile, letting go of my worries, and open my eyes, and just like that, the bridge comes along. He keeps looking at me, and I automatically fill in the song with him, making it end. As soon as the last beat is heard, he drops everything and comes to me, hugging me quickly. My eyes are watering, but still, I let him, because it is goodbye after all. When he backs away, he says, almost whispering, “You’re one hell of a partner, Brown.” He half-smiles and leaves.
I let that sink in and run out of there.
I run through the crowd, I run through the streets, I run through the camp’s dirt road until I reach my place. I get there and fall to my knees, and tears fall from my eyes. I remember everything vividly. The night where it all started, the teasing, the library shifts, the dinner, the babysitting, that horrible walk, the rainy day, the beach day, the wedding, and last night. All
memories. All in the past. He made me let my guard down, and now this is the state I’m at. On my knees, crying my eyeballs out because of this stupid deal. The deal I had taken, thinking I would be fine. How could I be
so stupid
? Of course, I was going to fall for him! My emotions are this mixture of sadness and anger. So I cry. I thought I didn’t have any more tears left, but boy, was I wrong. Is this how it’s going to be every time I see him?
I pull my knees to my chest and feel the sun heating up my skin. I bury my head and cry. I cry out and whisper a
why
. I feel someone placing their hand on my shoulder.
Allison.
I turn around to see blonde hair, but it’s not Allison’s. It’s Riden’s. He’s one of the last people who should see me in this state. He’s Jake’s best friend.
“Mads?” He looks at me with a sweet face, and I wipe my tears and try to talk.
“W-What are you doing here? You shouldn’t-”
He dismisses me with his hand and sits down next to me.
“I’m not going to tell him anything, you know.” He looks into the horizon and then gives me a small smile.
“But-” I let out and get cut in again.
“He’s like a brother to me, but sometimes he’s just plain stupid.” Riden shrugs. “He’s scared.” The best friend of the boy who just broke my heart looks down. “He always lived like a king, you know.”
I do know, but as he says this, he lets out a dry laugh and looks away. I don’t understand why, but suddenly a thought hits me. He always lived in Jake’s shadow. West always had better grades, was considered more intelligent, received more attention from the ladies, from everyone really, and Jake had parents who loved him. Everyone thinks Riden is just this follower of his, but he’s so much more than that. I try to imagine what it’s like to live with this every day. Emily and Joey foster
Riden since his parents are these important business people, very much like Allison’s parents. They have been traveling and leaving him alone since he could cook for himself. That’s why he’s always with Jake. He’s practically adopted. But the sad part is that I don’t think Jake ever realized that Riden was never Riden Matten. He was always Jake West’s best friend or sidekick.
“And deep down I have always had this jealousy, but right now, I’m glad I’m not like him.” He swallows and sits next to me. “Look at you.”
“It’s my fault, Riden. Last night- We kissed, and today, I didn’t even give him a chance to speak, and I said it was a mistake.”
“Oh. Then, why…?”
“Because I
physically can’t bear
to love someone like I love him.” It cuts me deeply as I say it. “When my mom left, I saved three spots in my heart. My dad, Lindsey, Allison, and I closed it forever, always keeping an arm’s length between me and everyone else.” Pause. “I know this could all be solved if I just said I want to be with him, but I don’t think I can right now. And Jake deserves better than what I can offer him.”
“That’s really mature of you. Your therapist would be proud, and as Jake’s friend, I’m glad. And as your friend, I’m here for whatever you need.” He self-proclaims, and I feel so grateful for someone like him. I love Allison, but she doesn’t know how it feels to be the main character’s best friend. Riden does.
“For the record, I think you are one of the best people I have ever known.” I say to him.
“Thanks. You too.” He places an arm around me and squeezes me sideways.
A week from now, it will be Amanda’s party of the summer. And I’m going. To have fun and let go. Until then, this week is going to be the time I need to gain emotional stability.
OceanofPDF.com

38
Denial Is A River In Egypt (I’m NOT in love)
The rest of the afternoon, I eat, watch TV, and read, because since I got into this mess with Jake, I haven’t had the time to do it. Fast forward to when everyone gets home.
I’m lying on the couch eating popcorn, thinking about life, you know, when my sister walks in giggling with my cousins.
“What is it?” I lift my head, looking at them, and I have been in this position for so long that I have marks of the couch’s arm on my face.
“I’m just laughing because Blake enjoys stuttering in front of Allison a lot.” She looks at Blake, who’s currently a tomato. Brandon is also smiling.
“Shut it, both of you.” Blake manages to get out. Poor guy.
“Don’t listen to them. You don’t need to have a partner. You know what, you don’t even have to have feelings.” I state,
shoving popcorn in my mouth, shaking my head slightly, like a crazy lady.
“What happened to you?” Brandon asks, in shock, noticing my pajama pants and messy bun, on the couch.
“What do you mean?” I smile a little too passively aggressive.
“What happened between you and Jake?” Blake asks back, looking at me, finally understanding.
“We decided to part ways equally.” I say blurting out every word and looking at everything except those three.
“He ditched you, didn’t he?” The twins ask at the same time, raising their eyebrows. My sister smacks both their heads in the back and explains to them.
“Didn’t you hear her? They
both
decided.” She rolls her eyes and breathes out in frustration.
“Thanks, Lindy.” I say, half-smiling.
“What are we watching?” She sits by me on the couch and takes the remote.
She sends a pointed look to my cousins and makes them stay. We decide to watch To All The Boys I’ve Loved Before. Everyone except us is bathing, so little by little, the living room started to get crowded. We’re currently in that part where Peter is trying to explain to Lara Jean that he and Gen didn’t do anything, and I just mutter, “Respect, Lara Jean.
Respect
.”
This movie is weirdly representative of my situation. Fake dating to make the ex jealous, the main girl has an absent mother who screwed her up for love forever, except in this story, she comes to terms with her issues, and I…
Don’t
.
“Okay, you are coming with me.” Allison gets up, takes my wrist strongly, and I get up, almost falling forward. She drags me all the way to our room and sits me down.
“Someone’s in a bad mood.” I utter jokingly.
“
You
should be in a bad mood.” She scolds.
I don’t think I should. I already released tension a little by pouring my heart out in an unknown hill, got comforted by the best friend of the person who made me pour my heart out, and then came back to a peaceful afternoon reading, eating, and getting comfortable. All things I love to do. All those things are making me forget that less than 24 hours ago, I was kissing him. Under the moonlight. And kind of embraced. And kind of
in love
. You know what? I don’t think I am in love. It was just an intense situation. I liked him, there’s no denying that, but I may have overreacted with the word love there.
All of a sudden, I hear something hitting my window. Allison and I turn to it, and I get up to check it out. It’s Jake. Throwing pebbles at my window.
I open it.
“West, I don’t think Amanda will like the fact that you’re throwing pebbles at another girl’s window.” I say bitterly, and his lopsided grin appears.
“She doesn’t have to like it. We’re not together.”
My heart drops.
Shit
.
My face turns somber, and his happiness fades seeing my reaction. I close the window and make a gesture for Allison not to comment. I go downstairs alone and pass by everyone. I take a deep breath before opening the gate.
When I get out, Jake is standing there, looking between my window and the ground, pebbles still in hand. He hears me and turns to me.
“Whatever you’re about to say, hear me out first. Amanda and I? Done. Forever.”
“Jake-”
“And I know you’re scared, but I’m scared too, and we can be scared together, you know?” He holds my shoulders, and there’s this hopeful glint in his eyes that crushes me even more.
“I can’t
be
with you.” I emphasize, and he stops, confused. “I want to, but there’s this voice inside my head that tells me not to. That I’ll hurt us for no good reason.”
“Madelaine, I love you.”
My eyes widen, and I’m truly speechless and alarmed.
“Jake, this is no joking matter.” I cross my arms and narrow my eyes.
“I’m not joking. I love you.”
My fight or flight instinct kicks in.
“No, you don’t!” I panic, feeling my eyes go all frantic on him.
“I’m pretty sure I do.” He starts to laugh, and I cover his mouth.
“Take that back! You don’t mean it.” I remove my hand as soon as we both look at it, and he smirks. “That’s it. Of
course
… You’re only saying this to piss me off, right? Jake, I already told you, don’t joke-”
“No, I do love you. I think I’ve been in love with you ever since the moment I made you smile for the first time. You know the one I’m talking about.” He comes closer, and I clumsily take a step back.
“No, I don’t, and you’re not being funny, Jake.
Quit it.
”
“Oh, you do.” He genuinely smiles, and I feel my cheeks heat up. “And I think you love me too, even though you’re in some type of denial. But I can’t be the one to tell you how you feel. You have to figure that one out on your own, and when you do…” He holds my eyes, like he never held them before, and stares at me with the most earnest expression I’ve ever seen coming from him. “I’ll be here. Just like I always was, and always will.”
I’m left breathless.
What is this?!
This isn’t real. I’m just dreaming this, that’s it.
How am I supposed to turn him down after this? God, I want to throw my arms around him and kiss him and cry at the same
time, because it’s like this hurricane is living inside me, and this confession only made it worse.
It’s like he’s giving me all this love, and I don’t know what to do with it. Like I’m picking it up with my index and thumb and studying it, trying to figure it out. If I want to throw it away or keep it.
“Jake, my head-” My eyes start watering, and he hugs me.
“Your head has been playing tricks with you for a long time. I hope you know you’re more than your story.” He kisses the top of my head, remains for a few seconds, and then takes a few steps back. “I guess I’ll be seeing you, Brown.”
“See you, West.”
OceanofPDF.com

39
I Knew Something Was Off
I’m sitting at the local coffee shop, outside, with Allison while she tries to get my mind off of deciding whether I’m throwing myself headfirst into a relationship with Jake or if I’m going to be miserable for the rest of my life.
Fun
.
“Do you think I give Riden false hopes?”
“What? You?
Never
.” I say still staring into the distance, but very much paying attention.
“He’s cute and all, but I’m used to edgy.”
“And assholes.” I take my eyes off the drywall and look at her. “Riden is one of the best guys you could have by your side.”
She nods, pensive and resting her head on her hand.
“Aren’t you swearing off guys for a while, though?” I drink my juice from the straw, looking suspiciously at her.
“Yeah, this is all hypothetical, Maddie,
Jesus
.” She rolls her eyes, and I just sigh. And that’s when I catch a man in the corner
of my eyes, walking with a massive bouquet of flowers into a back street.
That man is my dad.
I get up right away and drag Allison by the wrist.
“Hey, I was asking you-”
“My dad is carrying a bouquet of flowers.” I tell her, and she shuts up immediately.
We catch up to him pretty quickly without him noticing. He turns several times and scratches his head, like he’s nervous.
“Do you think he has a date?” I ask Allison, my gut feeling horrible.
Poor man, he deserves it, especially a good woman after the trainwreck that was my mother. My sister and I never saw him go on dates, and he rarely had female friends he talked about. Of course, I want him to be happy, but he’s my dad, you know? My only parents, and selfishly, I want him to stay mine and my sister’s secret super dad.
“I don’t know if we should be following him. If he has a date, he’ll tell me when it’s time.”
“Mads.” Allison stops in her tracks and points to an entrance. “Are your grandparents buried here?”
“No! My grandpa is buried in Jersey, and my grandma is very much still alive, you know that!” What a dumb question.
“Then why is your dad going to the cemetery?”
My eyes glue themselves to Mailview’s Cemetery entry, and my heart drops.
Deep down,
I know
. But I don’t really want to believe it.
OceanofPDF.com

40
It Can Get Worse
I walk in the cemetery, Allison glued behind me, creeped out by all the graves.
My eyes are glassy, and it doesn’t take long to find my dad, even though he doesn’t see us. We’re behind a small storage building that overlooks the grave where my dad is.
He starts talking, and I can hear it well enough.
“I miss you.” He exhales, putting the flowers down. My throat starts closing. “You don’t even know what has been happening lately. It’s like a story coming from Maddie’s romance books.” He chuckles, his voice unsteady. “She’s dating now. Our little girl.” Dad sniffles, taking his fingers to his eyes, and my head sticks to three words that he just proffered, confirming it.
Our
little girl.
No. That’s not possible. I shake my head, back to reality, repeating all over again in my head that there must be a logical explanation.
“She’s in love with Jake. Yes, Joey’s kid. I know, I didn’t believe at first, too.” He talks as if she is right there next to him and not beneath the ground. “That smartmouth did it.” He chuckles again, and his voice is broken. “He took my little princess, leaving me only with Lindsey, one of the most important girls in my life.” Pause. “Luckily, there’s not another Jake West to steal her from me, or I would be done. That boy knows what he’s doing, you know.”
My eyes aren’t focusing on anything anymore. He looks up and gulps, letting a tear fall down his cheek, and the silence takes hold of us, until.
“I really wish you were here, Sky.” His head falls forward, and my knees get weak.
Mom.
OceanofPDF.com

41
loml
John
1998
“Johnny!” I turn around to see Joey calling me, his arm around a pretty blonde. “Thought you’d never get here!”
I nod at him, and I can’t help but look around.
“This is Cecilia.
This
is my friend I was talking to you about.” He releases her and winks at me.
Cecilia greets me with a flirty
Hi,
but to be honest, I couldn’t care less. This is just another attempt by Joey to hook me up with some random girl, just so I can get over…
“Sky!” I hear someone shout to my left.
My eyes immediately follow the sound and soon enough find the most breathtaking view they’ve had for a while.
Skylar Reed. The craziest and most untamed woman I’ve ever met. She’s the type of person who makes you believe you’re capable of anything. Wild waves frame her face, and beauty marks cover her face in the most unusual spots. Beautiful green eyes and an even more beautiful soul make her the woman I first fell in love with when I was 13. The one for me. Joey doesn’t accept it. He thinks I’m living a delusional life, and I get him. Every time we interact, I become that person who thinks I am capable of anything, so I ask her out. She always said no, with a light smirk on her face. I still can’t figure out how she’s dated practically every person in this village except for me, when I never had eyes for anyone else.
She’s talking to my sister, excited for the Mailview Annual Jump.
“Just give up, man. She has made it clear she wants nothing to do with you.” Joey claps my back. “Now,
Cecilia
, on the other hand, has heard so much about how amazing you are…” He directs me towards Cecilia, and with a final look at Sky, I move towards the blonde.
“Hi. Sorry for earlier.” I come forward, and she smiles at me.
“No problem, I know all too well what kind of effect Skylar Reed has on guys…” She touches my arm.
“You know her?” I ask, trying to make it sound as normal as possible.
“She’s from my school back in Jersey. What about you?”
“Oh, she helps Mrs. West with the library. I’ve known her for a while…” I try not to get stuck on her and turn to Cecilia.
“Really? And how has Skylar Reed not put her hands on a handsome face like yours before?” She comes closer, and I chuckle.
Look, I’m not going to pretend I’m some kind of loser who can’t talk to girls or isn’t used to having some girls throw themselves at me. It happens, and when everyone leaves after
summer break, and I’m left here with Joey, we enjoy talking and flirting with the locals. Joey thrives when summer comes, and new girls come to visit, but I can’t quite thrive like him. Because of Sky. Every time I see her, it’s like every single conversation I’ve had with her fills my memory, and I’m lost.
Maybe I should just accept it. I’m handsome, damn it, if Sky and Joey thrive in the summer, so can I.
“I don’t know, I guess I pass by unnoticed.” I smile at her, buying into her game.
She comes closer and starts to outline my silver medal with her finger.
“That is a violation.” She rests her hands against my chest and prepares to put them behind my head.
“What the
hell
is happening here?!” To say I’m having a heart attack is an understatement. Somehow, someway, Sky teleported beside us and is currently murdering Cecilia with her eyes.
“We’re talking…” I respond, clueless.
“Oh, don’t fuck with me, Johnny. Cecilia was about to suck your face right off!”
People around us start to notice the commotion, and I get flustered.
What am I supposed to respond?
“And what if I was?” Cecilia crosses her arms, and the sudden thought hits me in the head.
“You’re jealous, Reed, aren’t you?” A smirk forms in my mouth, and for the first time since I’ve known her, it seems like she’s speechless.
Then it’s like a storm goes through her eyes.
“You know what,
hell yeah
, I am.” Then, without a sign, she grabs my collar and presses me against the wooden bodyguard shack.
Her lips crash into mine, and for a second there, it seems I’m about to pass out. And then I internally smack myself and enjoy what’s happening. She makes her point across the village for two heavenly minutes, and when she lets me go, we’re left staring at each other, breathless.
“Does this mean you’re finally mine to keep, Reed?” I smile at her, and her cheeks redden.
I love how she blushes so easily…
“As long as you are mine as well, Brown.” She punches my arm, and I get hold of her waist. She laughs with that infectious smile of hers, the one that has been echoing in my dreams since I first heard her laugh.
“I was always yours.”
And I knew that, from that moment on. When I proposed, when she walked down the aisle, when we had Madelaine and then Lindsey, when she left, and when I did everything in my power to find her. When I found her in the hospital bed, throughout her treatments, and when she took her final breath, I simply
knew
, there was no one else for me,
ever again.
She was, undoubtedly, the
loss of my life.
OceanofPDF.com

42
Guilt Tripping Me From Above Is Not Cool
My mum is dead. As simple as that. Well, maybe not that simple because I hated her since I was nine, only to find out that she’s been dead for I don’t even know how long.
Skylar.
Dead.
Loved.
Long time.
I wake up on a sofa with these words imprinted in my mind, not sure if I made them up or if someone actually said them.
“Maddie.” I slowly get up, and two figures get closer.
“She lied to us.
You
lied to me.” I ask weak, eyes on me, and about to break once and for all. I put my thoughts together, and anger bursts through my body and mind.
“She made me promise. I couldn’t-”
“Because I don’t know if you know this, Dad, but I hated her for leaving me, you, Lindsey!” I raise my voice, broken. “I hated the fact that I looked exactly like her. I wouldn’t look at myself in the mirror
for years
. I straightened my hair and refused to put on makeup. For nothing!” I laugh bitterly, my eyes swelling up. “And now I find that I was being an ungrateful bitch and that she’s dead!” I talk like a maniac, and my dad is about to cry.
“Don’t call yourself that, that’s unfair.”
“No, I called every curse word and demeaning name I could ever think of, because why would she ever leave you? Why would she leave her children?” I scoff, still not really believing this is happening. “For how long?”
“Two months after she left.” Dad looks at anything but me, ashamed. “Today, eight years ago.” Dad closes his eyes, and I can’t look at him.
“She’s been dead for eight years.” I think out loud. “She has been
dead
for
eight years
.” I repeat, hurt, ashamed of myself for hating on her. “Why?”
“Sh-She was dying.” Dad manages to get out, still not looking into my eyes. “She didn’t have much time, and she didn’t want to hurt you-
Us,
so she left.”
“This whole time I thought she didn’t
love
me and I wasn’t
enough
.” Tears fall down my face, and it feels like this, me crying every damn second of the day, could never stop. Like it’ll never stop hurting. Every time I think everything’s fine, BAM,
your mom is dead.
I sit up straight, focusing on the floor, my hands grasping onto the sofa.
“She made me promise.” Dad breathes calmly, and I get up with a swift movement.
“I’m sorry, Dad, I need air.” I blurt, as normal as one could with tears washing their face. Because how can I blame my dad if it was the love of his life’s dying wish?
I fast-pace through the library and reach the door, slamming it as I leave. Soon enough, it opens, and Allison calls after me.
“Mads.”
“Just leave me alone. Please.” I cry.
“Alright, just- Be safe, okay? I’m here whenever you want to talk about it.” She gives me a quick hug, and I appreciate it.
I then get out of here and walk fast to the one place I would be alone with all these feelings. The tree. I’m starting to spend a lot of time in there.
I take the same dirt paths, tears rolling down my cheeks just as before, and I cry even more. This is happening all over again. Can’t I just have a normal summer? A happy one? I don’t want to be the girl who cries all the time. I want to be
put together
.
Soon enough, I reach the tree, and the first thing I think about is… All these years, I’ve been incapable of being in a relationship because of these mommy issues, and after all, I could’ve perfectly been in one because I wouldn’t be afraid, because she did not walk out on me on purpose. And I’m not talking just about Jake. All the boys who ever asked me out or flirted with me… I thought,
My mom knew me like nobody, and she left me just like that. Chances are, they’re going to leave me faster.
She loved me, and that feels good. But she’s dead, and that
devastates
me.
I don’t even know what the proper reaction is, so, I sit and stay silent, not a single tear coming now, but a piece of me appeared to be ripped unexpectedly.
I spent so much time hating her that I’m not sure I’m capable of loving her. I villainized her and created this made-up character and convinced myself for years that that was who she was, and turns out I know
nothing
. I blocked out all the good memories, and I burnt all the photos.
Oh my god, if I were my dad, I would’ve crashed out.
I look forward, waiting for nature to give me answers or something. It’s not like she’s going to appear in the sky and give advice, Mufasa-style.
I sniffle and close my eyes, grateful to be alone right now.
I love all of them, but I couldn’t come to any kind of calming state if any of them were here trying to comfort me. Oh my god. How is he telling Lindsey? She was so young and didn’t understand much, but she can understand that her mother is
lifeless
. Dead.
Lindy… What if he’s telling her right now? What if she gets mad at him and needs support? I have to go back.
I return to the house quickly, still trying to think of ways Lindsey could discover and all the ways she could react. I reach the gates. I step in and never stop. I walk into the house straight to the living room, where my sister is watching TV, and my dad is on the couch near hers, shaking his leg and biting his nails.
“Lindy.” I call, and she peeks at me rapidly, but then she realises I’ve been crying and stops the show.
“Mads?” And without thinking, I say it.
“Mom’s dead.” I drop, trying not to tear up.
God, that was an awful way of saying it
.
Dad’s head snaps from me to her, ready for her reaction.
“I know.” She numbly responds. My dad and I look at each other, astonished, and I start to stutter. “How? When?
What?
”
“I found out two years ago.” She shrugs. “I found a letter in dad’s desk at home, from mom.” I didn’t see this coming. Neither did my dad.
“Were you okay?” I ask, still taken aback.
“I mean, our mom’s dead, Mads, it can’t get better than that. But I asked dad for a therapist, and she helped me realize that there was nothing I could do about it and that she loved us. She’s been trying to get me to tell you guys that I know for a long time, so I guess now you know.” She eyes us, unsure how to proceed.
“And you had to deal with that alone?” My dad’s heart breaks.
“
Yeah
, I wasn’t alone. I told Alana. And Aunt Lori.” My dad’s about to burst when she interrupts. “Don’t be mad at her, I made her promise not to tell you.” She glances at me. “Jake doesn’t know either, okay? Alana didn’t tell anyone.”
Jake. Right. I wasn’t even thinking about him.
“Are you okay?” She asks, and I just shrug.
The truth is, I don’t really know if I’m okay or not. The subject will be sensitive at first, but I trust that in time… It’ll hurt less, right? She’s already dead… It’s not like I can bottle up feelings for someone who has been gone for eight years. Right?
OceanofPDF.com

43
Self-Destructive Mode Is Real Fun
“My mom is
dead
, you know?”
“I really don’t.”
I’m already dressed for the party, in a short black dress that fits my body, while Allison is doing her hair. I quit on mine. No need to straighten it because my mom is a good person after all. I mean,
was…
“And I feel like I can’t even be mad at my dad because the love of his life asked him on her deathbed not to say anything to us. Who does that?!”
She thinks very hard while squinting to put on eye shadow.
“You know, since this is an original experience, I can’t really guide you through this, but
it is
kind of fucked up how they kept this a secret for this long.”
“
Right?
” I get up, frantic, I’m sure, and she grimaces at me.
“Let me at least cover the puffy eyes…”
“Sure. Do whatever you want.”
I sit lifelessly in the chair while she revolves around me, doing all sorts of stuff I never let her do. And she’s right, my eyes are horrible. I went to the rage room this morning, and the fact that the last time I was there, Jake was there with me, only made it worse. Dustin had to stop my session about halfway to make sure I wasn’t having a psychotic break. No, just broken.
When she finishes, she steps aside and lets me look in the mirror.
Copy. Paste.
I couldn’t look at myself in the mirror for years because of this.
I’m not sure who I am without hating her. How do I prefer my hair? Makeup or not? Action movies? Sports? Adventure?
Anything?
Where does my hatred for her stop, and I begin?
“We have to leave through the back door.”
I think it’s just extra cruel if my dad sees me like this…
I walk out the door and text him, telling him where I’ll be and approximately when I’ll be home.
Dad: Have fun :)
I push my phone down my purse and walk down the dark streets with Allison.
It doesn’t take long to find the only mansion in all of Mailview, pumping 2000s songs for all the neighborhood to hear, pink spotlights lighting up her house. I mean, she is this town’s Regina George, that’s for sure.
“Walking into the wolf’s coven…” Allison narrates.
“Free drinks, Alls.” I simply say, and she stops.
When we get in, we’re immediately greeted by a waiter with green shot glasses, and
Low by Flo Rida
plays through the speakers.
I down the shot and recognize it as absinthe, the same I drank when I went to the club, the night I started to date- Fake date, Jake.
I’m gonna need another one.
I go back and down another, with Allison grabbing my hand and dragging me to the dance floor.
The song transitions into
Lean On by DJ Snake
and Allison, and I just dance it out. Hair flipping, singing the lyrics, and in no time, desperate boys.
Allison pushes one away, but I don’t care enough to push the one grabbing my hips away. It’s like my emotions are turned off, and I’m just numb.
That’s when I feel someone grab my arm.
My eyes widen in fear, and in no time, Allison is pushing and punching Trent away.
“Get off me!” I shout, and he wears that disgusting, vengeful smile.
Not for long, though. Amanda appears out of nowhere and knocks him out with a food tray.
My mouth drops open, surprised, in a good way.
“Truce.” She nods, and I nod back. She asks her staff to kick him out and goes back to the corner of the room… Where Jake is.
They’re just talking, a respectable distance between them, but why would I care? I turned him down.
I go to the bar and order three tequila shots and dismiss the lime and salt. I drink them almost without breathing between taking each.
I catch two girls also watching Amanda and Jake.
“They broke up, right?” One of them says.
“Thank god, because that guy is sex on legs, Tiffany. I’m going in.”
She pushes herself off the counter, and I don’t dare to look at the scene anymore. Also,
who says sex on legs?
I come back to the dance floor and turn my back to him.
Disturbia by Rihanna
starts playing, and I just throw my head back and let everything go.
I dance like I’m alone in this room, like you’re supposed to dance, not just bopping your head around pretending to be cool.
A song passes, and so does a waiter, and I just keep the rhythm up. Shot, song, shot song, shot, song… Until everything is blurry around me, sort of muffled, and I just keep on dancing, stumbling a bit on top of Allison.
“Sorry.”
“I think it’s time to go.”
“No! We’re having fun.” I shout, and she shouts.
“You have been drinking for three hours now. I don’t want you to get into a coma.”
“I’m going to the bathroom.” I throw her a thumbs-up and lose her in the crowd.
I don’t know how this house hasn’t fallen yet because in those three hours, a hundred more people came in, and the dance floor is packed.
I’m stumbling my way to the bathroom and
holy shit, this looks straight out of a millionaire lifestyle magazine…
I try not to get too distracted by all the marble and focus on the toilet.
I grab the walls to help me get down, and I take the longest pee in my life. Also, I’m trying really hard not to throw up.
“Brown?” Jake knocks on the door, and I whine.
“Go away, Jake,
I’m peeing!
”
He doesn’t bother me anymore, so I flush the toilet and wash my hands, looking at my disheveled self in the mirror. A shadow of how I left the house this morning. Still, no matter how much makeup Allison puts on me, nothing can hide my heartbreak and the puffiness of my eyes.
I open the door wide open, and Jake’s waiting for me, arms crossed, like a patronizing prick.
“I told you to leave me alone.” I try walking forward and end up stumbling, and he catches me.
“Jesus, Mads, you can’t even walk.”
“Stop judging me, you’ve been doing this since you were thirteen.”
“I was an idiot, you know that.” He sighs. “You’re better than this.”
I nod. I’m not. I’m only human, and lately it feels like the world is turning on me.
“I can walk, West. Go back to Amanda.” It comes out spiteful.
I push myself off him too harshly and end up leaning against the wall, walking slowly towards the exit.
“Mads…”
“No,
no
, I’m Brown. You’re West. Don’t
Mads
me!” I argue while opening the door, so much pain inside me. “We’re nothing, West, get that inside your head.”
I know. I know that I’m being horrible and I wanna stop, but ever since I discovered the truth, it’s like I’m on a moving train that gets faster and faster and is
impossible to get off.
“You don’t mean that. You’re drunk. Where’s Allison?” He asks, coming closer and making sure I don’t trip down the stairs.
“They call it drunk truths for a reason.” I roll my eyes. “You should just quit Jake and go back to Tiffany. Or Amanda.”
“You don’t want to be with me? It kills me, but
fine
.” He makes me look at him, his eyes burning and locking mine. “But I’m not quitting you, Madelaine, mainly because I’m not sure I know how to, but also because you’re not this person who’s hurting me right now.” He tries to look for something inside me. Reason? Emotion?
Something
. “I know you’re hurting.” My heart drops as he looks right through me. “And
believe me
, that
tortures me so much more than any word you can throw my way.”
I blink away the tears.
“Whatever, West. I thought you were better than chasing a lost cause.”
His jaw clenches, and that’s when I hear Allison.
“Oh my god, Madelaine, finally. Where were you?” Then she stops, realizing she walked in on our conversation.
“You should get her home.” Jake says, sighing.
“You don’t tell her what to do. I go home if I want to go home.” I say childishly.
“Oh, we are going home. Even if I have to pick you up and throw you onto the couch myself.” Allison declares, and I throw my hands up.
“No need,
I’m going.
” I glance at Jake, who’s looking at the ground.
“Drink water.” He advises, and I scoff, while being dragged away by Allison.
“I’ll drink water if-”
“You want to, I know.” He takes a deep breath and walks to the other side of the street, and I catch sight of his bike.
I hear it in the background as I get home.
Allison tries her best not to make noise, but of course, my dad is waiting for me.
“
Shit
.” Allison mutters, and my dad sees me.
“
Hey
, Dad…” I smile ironically. “Your greatest disappointment is home.”
His face falls at my words.
“I’m gonna put on my pajamas…” Allison gets out, and I let my body fall on the couch nearest me.
“You are
not
a disappointment, you hear me?” My dad sits on the coffee table in front of the couch. “You are one of the strongest people I know. You stepped up when you didn’t have
to, and I take the blame for that. I was too consumed by my own grief to realize that you felt like you had the weight of the world on your shoulders. I’m the dad, Madelaine, and you made everything easier for me, but at what cost? I failed you and Lindsey.” He rubs his face. “If anyone’s a disappointment, it’s me.”
“Don’t say that. The only thing that comforted me about the fact that Mom was gone was the fact that I had you.” I sniffle, remembering all the times my dad stayed until late at night baking muffins for our school sale and how, even though his job was half an hour away from our house, he always made it so he could take us and pick us up from school. How he missed hangouts with coworkers and Christmas dinners because he insisted he wanted to stay with us instead. Even when we were tight on money, he would save up money so we could go to the movies to watch that brand new movie everyone was talking about.
“I love you so much, Maddie. If I could take away all your pain and put it on me, I would.” He strokes my head, and I hold his hand.
“I know. I’m sorry I’m worrying you.” I cry quietly, and he kisses the top of my head, barely containing his emotion.
“It’s my job to worry. It’s yours to be a teenager.”
Silence fills the rooms for a few beats.
“I love you too, Dad. Don’t die in the next 60 years, please.” I joke, and he laughs through the tears.
“Not if I can help it. I promise.” He sits down on the ground, still holding my hand, and for the first time in a while, I feel at peace.
He stayed with me until I fell asleep, keeping me safe.
Until we got the call.
OceanofPDF.com

44
Past Tense
8 Years Earlier
I wake up excited and motivated, for what’s happening at night, of course. Linda and Patrick, who have been gone for a year, are going to babysit, and it’s going to be
awesome.
The only downside is Jake. He’s so annoying. I don’t know how he can be so rude and arrogant
and
self-confident. He’s literally my height.
I roll my eyes and push these very negative thoughts out of my head. Isn’t that what I’ve been doing these past few months? Ignoring problems until they go away? I read that that is a typical behavior of my sun sign. Sometimes it sucks to be an Aquarius. Jake is a Leo. You can already see what I have to deal with. It feels like the world spins around him and that people exist
for
him. His eyes are quite something, but that’s not a very good thing when they’re the only thing in your favor.
I take breakfast and lunch, and in the afternoon, I decide to go check on my sister. Her bedroom door is halfway open, and she’s sitting in her bed holding a frame. I know exactly what frame she’s holding. A brown, wavy-haired woman holds a baby in her arms, smiling, like she’s never going to leave it. But she did. That baby, me, and dad.
My sister has struggled the most after my little incident. She’s five, so she doesn’t understand many things, but honestly, this one I don’t understand either. What I do understand is that she likes to waste her time suffering, thinking about a person whose thoughts are not worth giving any attention.
“Hey, Lindy.” I smile, and she looks up.
“Hi Maddie. Just looking at mom.” She shows me the frame, and I nod, slowly taking it away from her hands and laying it on her bedside table.
“Why?” I sweetly ask.
“Because I’m afraid I might forget her.” She frankly says. Not with sadness and not angry, just plain, simple emotionless.
I want to tell her that forgetting is good. That she doesn’t need to remember the woman who left us, but I can’t do that to her. I can’t ask her to defend herself the way I do. Because the way I do it is wrong. It works, but it’s so wrong.
“Did you shower, Maddie?” She asks, and I frown.
“Uh, I was about to.” I pout and cross my arms, making my little sister laugh.
“
Thank god.
”
I reach for a pillow and smack it in her face. She laughs even harder.
I love to hear her laugh.
I hug her, and she hugs me back, sending me to take a bath right after.
I put on my playlist, and
She’s Not Afraid by One Direction
plays through the bathroom. I sing happily. Or as happy as I can. Fake it till you make it, right?
I’m doing just fine,
singing in the shower
, when the bathroom lights
go out
.
“WEST!” I shout, enraged.
I hate him. I bet he’s laughing.
That jerk.
I basically take the shower with the lights off, and when I put a towel around me, I quickly go outside the bathroom to turn on the lights. I get dressed in some denim pants and a sweatshirt and go downstairs. Unfortunately, I trip on the last step and fall on my face. A laugh is heard. I look up, and Jake is on the door frame, arms crossed, looking down at me, like he always does.
“Missed me?” He questions, with
too
much amusement in his voice.
“You wish.” I say threatening.
Patrick comes rushing in and gets me on my feet. My eyes widen, and I hug him.
“I missed you so much.” I whisper.
“I missed you, too, Mads.” He kisses my cheek and takes me to the kitchen, scolding Jake on the way, for my benefit.
“Why did you just stand there?” He sighs, rubbing his eyes beneath the glasses.
“Why would I help her?” Jake asks with an astonished face, like helping me would be the end of the world.
Linda appears and smacks him on the back of his head. Jake rubs the spot angrily and goes to the living room.
“How are you, little sister?” She asks, hugging me. My eyes start to water, but I don’t let myself cry. I missed them so much.
“I’m okay, I guess.” Rubbing my head, we all return to the living room. “Let’s play Monopoly!” I suggest, excited.
They all agree, and we set it up. It seems like an hour passes, and right now I’m rich, Patrick and Linda are doing just fine, and Jake is poor. Like poor poor, which is kind of ironic.
“You are manipulating the dice!” He spits at me, angrily.
A grin forms in my mouth, and my face goes close to his, just to gloat.
“That’s kind of
your
thing, not mine. And even that, you can’t do it properly.” I snort, and he grabs a pillow and throws it at my face.
He did not
. I throw myself at him and pull his hair, resulting in his hands also going up and pulling my hair. Linda wraps her arms around my waist and gets me off him, whilst Patrick does the same with Jake.
“How many times do we have to say this?” Patrick sighs, his fingers holding the bridge of his nose. Jake and I are on opposite sofas, just in case.
“Violence is not the answer.” Linda bursts, exhausted.
“Come on, look at that face,” Jake starts, “you can’t tell me that it isn’t very attackable.” He excuses.
“
Asshole
.” I mutter, my hair looking like I was attacked, which technically I was, and my arms crossed.
“I heard that!” He warns, his smug look being replaced by an insulted one.
“You were supposed to.” I scrunch up my nose, and his tongue gets out of his mouth.
How mature.
Patrick and Linda look at each other and close their eyes for a second, realizing that they still have to feed us and keep us entertained for another three hours. I pity them, honestly.
After giving us pizza and putting on a movie, Linda and Patrick fall asleep in each other’s arms. I love their relationship. For several moments throughout this year, I thought they were never coming back. But they’re not like that. I can only imagine their wedding! I bet it will be so cool. And if I go to their wedding, I might bring a plus one. Will I have a plus one by then? I would like to… I fantasize about it for a second. I’m in a beautiful dress, which will have to be fairytale-like, and my hair straightened. My date will be so perfect. He will have to be kind
and tall and charming… Basically, the opposite of the guy who is currently sitting in front of the couch, looking at his hands, bored.
I can’t daydream with the movie playing in the background. I move my hand to the remote and turn off the TV. The couple doesn’t notice, obviously, because they’re deep asleep, and he doesn’t complain. Just continues to look at his hands, like they’re
so interesting
.
I let my head fall backwards on the couch’s cushion, also sitting on the floor, and breathe out, a bit irritated for losing my thoughts and being stuck in a living room with nothing to do,
with West.
“
So…
Your mom left.” He drags, a casual tone.
He’s no longer looking at his hands. He has his head the same as mine.
“Observation on point.” I sarcastically utter, my voice a bit in shock with his bold self.
Up until now, everyone says
Sorry
or avoids the subject, which, after a while, became unbearable. Like the elephant in the room. He just
says
this, neither sadness nor pity in his voice. I guess when you’re a child, and you’re not very close to another, you can just be blatantly honest. But what’s curious is that I’m not mad. I become more pissed off when they try to comfort me than when he said what he said.
“That sucks.” He says, again, neither sadness nor pity in his voice, and completely ignoring my comment.
“It does.” My head pushes itself down, and my eyes travel to his face.
Nothing
. Not even his face shows it.
His head lowers too, and he looks straight into my eyes. That’s a bit intimidating, not gonna lie.
“Not even
you
deserve that.” He huffs empathically.
I only retain one thing from that sentence. A strange one.
“Why are you being
nice
to me?” I ask hesitantly, completely ignoring the emphasis he had on that
you
.
“I know, right?” He chuckles, letting those rare dimples appear. “I felt it too.” He makes a dorky, engrossed face, and I can’t help but laugh.
A bit of resistance comes from him, but in a matter of seconds, his laugh also invades the living room. I don’t think West ever made me laugh, but I’m not complaining. This is part of one of those rare moments. Unique, if you will. Our laughs have never been heard in the same room before. At least, never caused by the other. It’s nice to change a bit from our screaming and fighting. Not that this will change anything between us. We will always be Madelaine and Jake, Brown and West, fighting for everything and for nothing. Usually his fault. Right now, I let this moment tape itself as it happens, because one day I might want to play it and remember it. Perhaps when he and I go into another fight, or when we stay mad at each other. I will remember that there actually was a moment when we were at peace.
OceanofPDF.com

45
Zeus And His Curse
I wake up to my dad’s geeky Star Trek ringtone and avoid a groan. He answers the phone whispering.
“Joey, it’s half past four
in the morning.
” My dad’s eyes dart to me, and I grow curious. “What? But how? I mean, forget that, what can I do?” He keeps looking between the phone and me. “I’ll tell her, and we’ll be on our way.”
Allison is snoring in her pajamas on the couch farthest from us, unaware.
“Mads…” My dad scratches his head, getting up. “I don’t want you to worry, but- Jake got into an accident.”
What?
Memories of him getting on top of his bike flash in my head.
That stupid bike.
My eyes fog, and my dad grabs my hands.
“Hey, it’s okay. Joey said he has a concussion and some bruising, but he’s fine.”
I nod, containing myself. I get up, wake Allison up, and tell her we’re going to the hospital.
“What are we waiting for? Let’s go.” She looks down at her pajamas and shrugs. “Who cares, let’s go!”
She holds my hand and squeezes it while my dad rushes to get his car.
This can’t be happening.
We all go into the car, and my dad drives fast.
We
could get into a car accident.
We always think these things are never going to happen, because they only happen in movies or to strangers. Except when they happen to you. But why us? Why
him
.
I have to calm down, it’s not like he’s…
He’s waiting for us,
alive
.
The whole car ride was silent.
My dad parks, and all of us get out of the car, running to the hospital. Of course, I don’t know what I’m doing. I’ve rarely been to hospitals. I let my dad pass me and run after him. He walks in and says everything that has to be said, and I should probably listen, but my brain can’t process. I just
follow
.
We go through the stairs and the elevators, and when we get to the right place, Emily and Joey are talking to the doctor. Riden and I run to them.
“Is he okay?” We both ask at the same time, hopefully. Emily releases a cry, and Joey is the one who talks.
“Strong concussion and bruising, like I said on the phone.” He sighs, probably not believing that this is happening to his son.
“I’m so sorry, I know he’s alright, I’m just-”
“It’s okay.” Joey hugs her, comforting her.
We all stand in silence until we hear a loud beeping sound coming from one of the rooms. Like a finish line. A nurse gets out of the room and shouts.
“Need a doctor in room twelve! Now!”
“Wait, room twelve… That’s Jake.” Emily says, horrified, trying to get out of Joey’s arms.
The doctor immediately abandons us and calls for support, but I can’t stand it.
I walk out discreetly between the chaos to the room. Several people get in the room, and I stand in the doorway. I try to see, and I wish I didn’t. He has tubes, his face is bloodied, cuts and injuries, and the heart monitoring machine is going wild.
“Possible allergic reaction to Ketorolac. How’s his airway?”
The doctor takes a tube and tries for a few seconds to place it in him.
“Damnit, it’s closed!” The doctor curses, and a cry escapes me.
That thin line is going crazy. That thin line can change everything. That thin line is getting closer to a…
Flatline.
“Crash cart! He’s crashing.” The doctor starts doing CPR, and I cover my mouth.
“No!” I shout, my voice hoarse, and my eyes looking at something that they can’t stand. “No!”
“Ma’am, you can’t be in here. Someone take her-”
I feel my dad’s arms around me.
“Maddie-”
“
Let me go!
” I cry, and he drags me further away while the doctor is
still
trying to bring him back. “Dad, let me…”
I can’t lose him.
I can’t.
I feel like I can’t breathe. Why can’t I breathe?
I’m supposed to be able to breathe without him.
I close my eyes and focus on my breathing, letting the tears stain my face, and the pain takes control of me. It’s all falling down. My mom, him…
This can’t be happening.
He can’t-
I’m feeling myself get dragged. I don’t want to get dragged. I want
Jake
. I want to keep calling his name until he comes back
to me. What is happening to me? I look up at the bright lights of the hospital.
“
Please.
” I cry. “
Mom, please
.” It comes out of my mouth before I can stop it.
My dad stops us in a small, empty hallway. My eyes search for his face.
“Maddie,
please
stop.” He calmly says.
“No! She
left me
. The least she could do is save him!” I shake my head and close my eyes, trying to focus on her face. I don’t believe in anything, but desperation makes people do desperate things. “D-dad, I think I’m sick. I mean, I feel like I-I can’t breathe.” I let out between sobs.
He holds me closely.
“I don’t think you’re sick, honey. I think you love him.” My dad’s green eyes show nothing but the truth.
The image of his almost lifeless body is printed on my brain, haunting me.
“Dad.” I look at him, on my knees, on the floor, realizing I love the one person who, right now, can absolutely destroy me. “I can’t lose him.” A cry escapes my mouth, and the tears take it from there. My dad kneels next to me and hugs me.
“I know.” He gulps, as if he knew what I was talking about. It’s because he does know. My mother. She didn’t just leave Lindsey and me. She left the man who loved her beyond reason. My dad. And he watched her die.
I close my eyes.
They say that we were originally created with four arms, four legs, and a head with two faces. Fearing our power, Zeus split us into two separate parts, condemning us to spend our lives in search of our other halves. The cruelty is that I actually thought mine would be him.
OceanofPDF.com

46
LOML
“Maddie.” My dad shakes me slightly and- “He’s okay. He was moved to observation.”
My eyes swell up from joy and disbelief.
“Really? You’re not lying?” I cry through my biggest smile, and he smiles back.
“Hey, are you calling me a liar?”
I stare him down, the elephant in the room — mom — obviously staring at us.
“I
promise
.”
I hug him, and he squeezes me.
“You’re so strong, Dad.”
Really, I don’t know how he did it. The emotions I felt for an hour, he has been feeling for eight years. Eight years of torture.
But she pulled through.
Maybe
. Maybe she’s listening, maybe she’s not, but the bottom line is he’s okay. And I kind of
like the idea that she can hear me, even if that makes me batshit crazy.
“Thanks.” He squeezes me tighter and then looks at me, hiding a smile. “You can visit him.”
My eyes light up, and then guilt washes over me.
I dismissed him as if he meant nothing to me last time we spoke. At the party.
I bite my lip as I slowly get up and round the corner, barely able to look at Joey and Emily, who are coming from his room.
That doesn’t stop Emily from speaking to me kindly.
“Riden’s in there, but then you can go, if you want.” She hesitates and then throws her arms around me. “Thank you for caring for him. I appreciate you so much, sweet girl.” She hugs me tight, and I feel my stomach being punched with guilt.
I fought with him and then did nothing to stop him from being on that bike.
When I open my eyes, I catch Amanda’s eyes from across the hall, sitting in front of Jake’s room.
Emily lets me go, and I approach his room carefully.
I then decide to sit beside her, and she laughs bitterly.
“I never stood a chance.”
“Excuse me?”
“Against you. With him.” She half smiles while looking at the wall.
“Amanda, I swear I didn’t- He didn’t-
Nothing
happened while you were together.”
“I know.” She purses her lips. “I mean, I think I always knew. You were like a ghost haunting our relationship. And I don’t think he was even
aware
.” She smiles ironically, a tear starting to fall down her angelic skin. She wipes it with her finger, trying not to ruin her makeup. “But it was obvious. And exhausting. I was so bitter all the time, because
who can compete with Madelaine Brown?
”
Now that’s something I never heard.
“I always felt like I was falling short. I didn’t tease him enough, or I teased
too much
. I didn’t have the right smile, the one that lit him up. Didn’t listen to the right music and didn’t read the same books.” She glances at me and then at the ground. “I’m sorry for everything I ever said to you.”
She’s emotional but doesn’t let more tears fall.
“Thanks. If it makes you feel better, I wish I could treat people nicely. Or fit in and say the right things. I would love to do makeup without looking like a clown and actually put together
decent
outfits.”
“Thanks… You know, he punched Trent last night. A couple of times.”
“What?”
“Yeah, he was already fired up because I told him about what he tried with me… But when he saw him grab you… Trent was
done
. Apparently, not for the first time either.”
Blade
.
“I’m glad he woke up and realized we were both wasting our time.” She shrugs, and I don’t say anything.
Riden comes out of his room, and Amanda gets up to go in.
She takes about ten minutes, and then she comes out, smiling at me while she leaves.
I feel for her, I really do. But she kicked me when I was at my lowest, dragging me down just because she was insecure. I might recognize that it’s water under the bridge, but I can’t forget all the times she made me cry.
The door of his room keeps staring back at me, letting me gain focus on what’s really important.
I take a deep breath and get up, walking into the room, the door already half open.
Isn’t he a sight for sore eyes…
I come closer to the bed and don’t dare to sit, too uncomfortable with how I spoke to him.
“You died. For a few minutes.” My eyes focus on a spot in the sheets and don’t dare to move. “It was kind of terrifying.” I lay my hand on top of his. “I’m sorry, Jake. I was horrible to you.” I say in one breath, my voice wavering and my eyes looking up, trying not to cry. “You never gave up on me, even when you should have.” I cry and laugh, wiping my nose. “And you say I’m stubborn…”
I end up sitting down, my eyes never leaving his, that even closed, are marked on my brain.
“And I…” I breathe in deeply, feeling the air getting trapped in my lungs and then slowly expanding them. “I love you.” My voice cracks. “
Of course,
I love you, but… I can’t stop thinking that you deserve better than
this mess.
” I gesture towards me as if he could see it. “But even when I try convincing myself that I don’t want you,
I do.
And I just want you to wake up and make one of those cocky jokes and make me laugh. I mean,
truly
laugh. I need that. I need
you
.” I wipe my tears away. “I thought that what was keeping me from being with you was the fact that my mom had left me, and that once I had closure, we could… But,
now
, turns out she actually loved me and died, and that only makes things more complicated.” I sigh. “I hate that I’m too scared to be with you, and I can’t turn it off. Isn’t it ridiculous? You almost
died
, and still I’m shaking from the thought that I could destroy us.” I get up and look at him. “I should be the sun for you, not a black hole.”
Because even a black hole can consume and make the sun disappear. Jake is definitely my sun.
OceanofPDF.com

47
My Mom’s Gonna Destroy My Bike
Jake
“
Madelaine
…” I’m dreaming again. And she keeps telling me those words. But I’m home, and it’s been a week, and I don’t know if I’m being delusional or not.
“Love?” My mom peeks through the door, and I rub the back of my head. I love my mom truly, but she has been babying me since the accident, which is understandable. I’m the better child after all. But also,
I can’t breathe!
I can’t look at screens, I’m
barely
allowed to get out of bed, and I just stare at the ceiling all day while she practically mouth-feeds me. Even though
I’m fine.
I’m playing the town’s charity football game next week. My doctors cleared me too, doing every CT possible and confirming my head is okay. “Brought you chicken nuggets.”
“Thanks, mom.”
She lays the tray on my bedside table, then sits on the side of the bed.
“Oh, just got confirmation that Uncle Richard and company are coming for your eighteenth. Katie bought those tickets with her music money. Have you talked to her yet?”
Yeah, my cousin Mary Kate, who’s also an aspiring singer, recently got her number one hit with DEXTR after years of yearning for success in her dream. The thing about famous relatives is that you don’t know if you’re successful because of them or because you actually have talent. And she understands me. She was like this for years until her tape got into the hands of a record label in London, and then she met Dexter in a club and together made the hit song of the summer. But I’m embarrassed, I guess. And scared, I won’t be as good as her. I think I’m a talented guitar player, but do my lyrics lack substance? I don’t want to be her shadow. I want to stand on my own. Besides, being vulnerable about my dream is hard for me. Kate sees me as the childish younger cousin who flirted with her friends all the time and doesn’t have a serious bone in his body. It’s hard for me to show her that hidden, artistic part of me.
I don’t know…
“Not really… But I still have a year of school left, so there’s no hurry. Besides, I might get into Delaware, full ride.” I grab the football from my bedside and throw it in the air.
“Do you really have to play next week?” My mom sighs, helpless.
“Mom, don’t give me those eyes. I’ll be
fine
. The doctors cleared me, and by the way you’re feeding me, I’ll be the best player on the field. Apart from Graham.”
She looks at the ceiling, trying not to cry, and I avoid exhaling too loudly.
“I’m sorry, it’s just you can’t imagine what it was like seeing you like that and the idea of losing you-” She covers her mouth, and I get up and hold both her shoulders.
“I’m here, Mom. I’m not going anywhere. Besides, that gave you the perfect opportunity to get rid of the bike, like you always wanted.”
“Cheers for that. And it’s not destroyed or anything,
like I wanted to do
. It’s in
retirement
for a year.” She narrows her eyes at me, still wanting to attack me for the scare I’m sure. “Poor Madelaine, she was devastated…”
“
Madelaine…
Did she visit me?”
My mom smirks, and I roll my eyes, already regretting asking this.
“Visit you? She stayed in your room for
an hour
.” My mom throws me the biggest smile, and I hate that she’s making me blush like a schoolboy.
So what I have been dreaming about… I was almost sure she said it, but now I’m convinced.
My mom’s smile drops, and she shifts uncomfortably.
“Love?” She looks me in the eyes, and my heart goes wild with the seriousness in her tone. “Maddie has been having a couple of rough weeks now. She has seen her therapist, and she’s slowly recovering, but I really think she could have someone like you by her side.”
“Of course. I just don’t think- Well, I told her I loved her, and she turned me down. Twice.” I look at my hands and clear my throat.
“I’m sorry. But I don’t think it’s because she doesn’t love you back.” She starts twisting her wedding ring, something she does when she’s nervous. “Jake, Sky didn’t leave them like Maddie always thought. She died. Not long after leaving.”
My head short-circuits.
“I’m sorry,
what?
” I push the covers back. “You could have started with that!” I put on some pants and dart towards her house, before my mom can stop me.
Unbelievable! That night, when she was clearly burning out, she wasn’t very kind to me, but-
Jesus
, I could have never guessed that her mom was fucking dead!
I burst through the kitchen door and head straight for the living room. I’m ready when I get there and-
“Where’s Mads? Oh, of course,
dipshit
, she’s still sleeping… It’s like you don’t even know her.” Hands on my hips, I look around without purpose.
“What are you doing here?” She asks, and my head whips towards her.
“Hey.” I stutter.
“Hi.” She glances down, fully dressed and showered.
Suspicious.
“Look, I know things are-”
“Weird?”
“Cringe?”
Blake and Brandon
helpfully
add.
“Well, yeah. But I know.” I tell her, and her eyes darken.
Then she looks at the twins and points outside.
I nod, and the twins couldn’t care less, going back to their game.
I close the door behind me and don’t give it a second thought.
I wrap my arms around her, and she takes a few seconds to react.
“I don’t know if this is allowed, but I hope it’s enough.”
She hugs me back and buries her face in my chest, just the way I like it.
“I thought you were gonna say,
So you’re mom’s dead… That sucks.
” She chuckles, and it’s the best sound I can hear right now.
“I knew you remembered that.”
“Well, it’s like the only funny thing you’ve ever said…” She claps back, and I rest my chin on top of her head.
“I’m sorry.” She says, and I move my thumb up and down her back.
“I know.”
“Jake, I’m still confused. And it’s not fair to you.”
“It’s okay.”
I’ll wait
. I step away a bit just so I can look at her face. “You coming to my game?”
“Why would I pass up an opportunity to see you being tackled?” She jokes.
“Okay,
hilarious
.”
She sighs.
“We’re okay, right?” She asks, hesitant.
“No.” I say earnest and I feel her breath hitch, so I whisper. “
I’m kidding.
”
“Jake!” She pushes me, but I don’t let her get away.
I want to tell her. The thing I heard her say when I was unconscious, or maybe conscious, I don’t know. But I’m scared too. That she’ll reject me once and for all, and I’ll be doomed to watch the love of my life pass me by.
OceanofPDF.com

48
Talking To Stone (No Offense)
Sky’s tombstone.
“I
guess
I’m here to talk to you. So I can find some sort of closure.”
I unfold the picnic towel I brought and lay it in front of the stone.
“So, leaving without an explanation? Kind of fucked up if you ask me.” I lean against my hands behind my back, holding myself up. “I’m sorry for calling you every curse word I know.” I bite my lip and shrug. “But in my defense, I thought you were a deadbeat.”
I listen to the birds chirping in nearby trees and let the sun take the sadness out of me.
Turns out eight years’ worth of grief all bundled up in a couple of weeks can undo a person
a little
. Teddy, my therapist, has been seeing me three times a week, and the first session was horrible. It’s always the hardest, but once I get over that barrier,
it turns out I’m more capable of emotions than I thought. In a twisted way, knowing my mom loved me made me have some initiative, my therapist says she’s been looking for ever since I started seeing her. Now, of course, it’s not all undone in two weeks. This will probably take months or even years for me to process it all correctly. I don’t know, everyone has different timings.
“Teddy, my therapist, liked that I challenged myself this summer. She also said I have abandonment issues thanks to your stunt, so thanks.” I tap the towel, looking for reasons why this isn’t crazy. “Sorry, I don’t mean to blame everything on you.” I focus on a grass strand. “You saved Jake.
Supposedly,
I’m still a bit skeptical about all of this.” Pause. “But if you did save him, was it a sign that I should take my second chance? With him?”
I exhale loudly and lie on the towel, looking at the small clouds in the sky.
A small breeze cools me from the heat coming from the sun, and I just lie in silence, forgetting where I am for a moment. When I open my eyes, I freeze.
Am I seeing things? Is this some kind of joke?
I swear to god, I’m seeing a heart-shaped cloud in the
sky
.
“Okay,
that’s crazy
.” I take out my phone and take a picture of it, just so I know I’m not going crazy.
“I’m just rambling and telling you all of this so I can avoid the real conversation.” I start twisting a patch of grass, absentmindedly. “I think I never stopped caring about you, but the fine line between hate and love is really blurry, right now.” I gulp. “Even though I know the truth now… I guess I still resent you. For leaving like you did.”
I get up, deciding it’s time to go, for now, and knowing this was a huge step for me.
I stare at her description on the stone and can’t help but smile.
Mother, wife, and Mailview’s Jump Winner of ‘98.
OceanofPDF.com

49
Against All Odds, I’m In The Bleachers
Who am I even kidding right now? I’m sandwiched between all of Mailview, in our modest football field’s bleachers, probably about to give in at any minute, full of sweaty people, because Jake had a concussion two weeks ago, and he’s playing freaking
football
like it never happened. So
yeah
, Emily and I are trying to act cool while withering inside. Alana and Lindsey stayed with Aunt Lori at home, all of them known for not standing football in the slightest. Brandon and Blake are just too invested in their PlayStation.
In the meantime, Jake’s friends came back for the game and his birthday party the following week.
“So, how are you doing?” Emily shouts over all the noise.
“Better.” I bite my lip, unsure. “Thanks. For everything.”
She throws me the biggest mom-smile, almost crying, and opens her arms for a hug. Of course, I take it.
“I don’t want to pry, but what happened? Between you two?” She holds my face.
Oh, here comes the emotions…
“I wasn’t brave enough to let someone all the way in.” I catch my breath, ashamed to say it out loud.
All of a sudden, everyone goes wild when the players walk in. Jake walks in, the tips of my lips go up, and I clap, and so does Emily, who didn’t say anything after me.
He runs backwards, holding his helmet, and looks for someone in the crowd. He sees his mom and waves, and then catches me and winks, which makes my insides explode.
Allison was grabbing snacks but stopped by the sidelines to speak with Riden. Joey and Dad join us by sitting in front of us.
After a couple of minutes, the game starts, and I’m super focused when Emily comes close to me and searches for my eyes.
“I think you sell yourself short because the girl I know stands up for anyone who needs help. She drops everything she’s doing to help out a friend and has been putting her dad and sister before her own needs for eight years. She sang Elton John in front of a whole town and has been holding my son accountable his whole life. But unfortunately, she doesn’t have the same sort of consideration for herself.”
That hits me right in my heart and punches a tear out of my eyes. I wipe it right away, and she places her arm around me.
“I’m not telling you this because he’s my son. I’m telling you this because I’d like to think of you as my second daughter. And after what you had to endure, you deserve more than anyone to be happy. And sure, some people just don’t like relationships and all the work they’re worth… But you’re not one of those people, are you, Maddie?”
I always observed love from afar. I made jokes about princes when I was younger, and about marrying the perfect man when I was older. But I didn’t believe it, not really, because I didn’t believe that it was made for someone like me. Even though I loved hearing about it, I somehow wasn’t cut out for it. I spent so many years convincing myself it would never happen for me that I actually started to believe it. But Jake is living proof that I wasn’t. He sees me for something other than a bitter, broken antisocial girl. He sees me as a multifaceted, human, introverted girl. He has so much faith in me that he makes me feel like I’ll see myself more kindly someday.
He pisses me off
, but somehow makes me the best version of myself when I’m with him. The version I would be proud to show little Madelaine. And isn’t that what healthy relationships are all about? Bringing out the best in each other and making the other want to be better every day?
I know it’s impossible for him to do all the work, when only I have the tools to do it myself, but I love that he makes me want to pick them up and believe I can heal myself. And why wouldn’t I want to be with someone like that?
I look out into the field and spot his jersey as he’s sprinting across the field.
“I’m afraid I’ll do more hurt than good.” I exhale, and she scoffs.
“Maddie, the fact that you’re worried about that already tells me you won’t.” She holds my eyes, and it’s like she’s promising. “But just so you know, when love’s involved, it’s impossible to go through it unscathed. It is because you love them so much that it hurts the most. But you work through it because when you find someone who feels like
home
, you hold on to them and you
fight
for them. And you, Madelaine, are a fighter if I’ve ever seen one.”
It’s like I’ve been sleeping for so long, and she just slapped me awake.
My eyes track him down on the field, and by the commotion around me, they just scored against the opposite team. I’m smiling and don’t even realize it.
“Trent is pouting in the first row with a black eye.” Allison giggles, passing me Frenchfries.
“Jake did that.” I say to her without Emily hearing.
“
What?!
” Her mouth drops wide open, and I nod. “Go get your man.” She comments, stuffing her mouth with powdered Doritos.
It’s in that moment that someone from the other team crashes into Jake.
“THAT’S A FOUL YOU ASSHOLE!” It comes out of me before I can stop it.
Mind you,
I don’t even know the rules of football.
Emily, Joey, Dad, and Allison are staring at me, and I’m frozen, wide-eyed, and slap my hand against my mouth.
Joey shrugs and nods as if he respects me even more. My dad pretends to be mad that I said asshole and Emily starts laughing.
“Surprisingly enough, you’re
right
, that was
a clear foul!
” Allison ends up shouting, too, and I laugh.
I never thought I would be enjoying a football game. I never thought I’d go “skinny dipping” either, or that the whole town would hear me sing, but here we are. Here I am.
I survived.
I survived years of not feeling enough, multiple miserable dates, a whole school life with only one friend, being the designated “loner”, and sharing a room with Lindsey — that’s a whole other nightmare. But this summer was the first summer I felt like I truly
lived
. I felt
alive.
I could breathe deeply without forcing a yawn. I didn’t even think about it, I just
did
.
What I didn’t know about being angry all the time and always expecting the worst is that I didn’t experience highs and lows. It was all very constant. But the lower I get, the higher the climb. And the higher I feel, the harder the fall. So, if you asked me
if I could relive a summer of my life, I would choose this one, bad things included. I would have never experienced the biggest highs of my life if it weren’t for those bad things.
“Wow, Graham is really good.” Allison comments as we see him navigate the field swiftly. So much that he scores a touchdown like it’s the easiest thing for him.
We all cheer, and without even realizing it, the buzzer sounds through the crowds, and we won!
Emily immediately hushes us to go and meet the guys in the field, even though Allison is already on it. She’s dragging me down the steps and into the field where the teams are celebrating and the opposite team is clapping, cheerfully considering this was a friendly game for charity.
She drops my hand and runs to Riden, throwing herself around him.
“Congrats!” She says, and he removes his helmet, red as ever, and it could be because he just played a full game. Or because of her.
I smirk at him, and he gets even redder while she’s shaking him excitedly. He just shrugs my way, and I laugh quietly.
“Here to kiss the champion?” Jake calls me out.
“I think your mom’s got it covered.” I bite my lip, and sure enough, Emily rushes to smother him.
“Take that bloody thing off, so I can see your face!” His shoulders slump, and he takes off his helmet. “Is your head hurting? Are you feeling alright? That was quite the hit… Oh, you played so well, love!” She drags his head down and kisses his cheek, like a proud mom. Then she holds his face. “I’m so proud of you!”
“Thanks mom.” He glances between her and me, embarrassed, and I’m trying really hard not to laugh, seeing this 6’1 boy being babied by his sweet mom.
“We have to go out for dinner!” She claps excitedly and turns towards me, Allison, and all the boys.
“Or we can just eat at the stands at the fair.” Jake counters, and the guys shrug.
“Alright then, whatever my baby wants.”
“Mom!
Not in public
.” He whines, and she rolls her eyes.
Laughter bubbles out of me, and I catch him discreetly smirking.
“Okay, we’re going with John, and you boys drive safely to the main square!” She threatens, and they all smile at each other.
“Don’t worry, Mrs. West, Riden is driving, so I’ll be seeing you next year. Probably.” Riden hits Aaron in the arm, and we all laugh.
“I don’t drive
that
slowly…”
OceanofPDF.com

50
Friday Night Lights Confessions
Music echoes around the main square as the smell of mouth-watering food surrounds us. We’re all — Aunt Lori, sisters, and cousins included — sitting outside in one long conjunction of tables, yellow lights wrapped around every stand, light pole, and possible surface on the square. The gazebo looks ethereal.
My anxiety is through the roof, and I keep stealing glances at Jake, knowing damn well he catches me sometimes. This is that moment in movies of will she or won’t she.
I can’t catch him alone, though, since the boys are always with him. My leg trembles beneath the table, and I play with a bag of rice on my plate.
“Not Graham, he probably has a spot saved up in an Ivy, waiting for him.”
Graham rolls his eyes but doesn’t deny it.
“I feel like if I have the chance to have that education, why not take it?” He shrugs, and Aaron scoffs next to him.
“You’re always so diplomatic, this is why I’m grandma’s favorite.” He comments, stuffing his mouth with meat.
“Yeah, I’m sure the idiot who comes home for Christmas sporting a black eye and smoking is grandma’s favorite.” Graham counters, and Aaron smirks, knowing he got to him and got a reaction.
“Guys, we still have a year left.” Allison says we all look at each other. “One last year.”
In that moment, our eyes find each other. I can’t take it anymore;
this is consuming me inside.
After a couple of rough weeks, my psychiatrist prescribed me some soft pills to ease my anxiety, and she told me I shouldn’t be torturing myself thinking I can go through it without help. If I broke my leg, I wouldn’t walk on it and expect it to get better, would I? So why wouldn’t I treat my mind with the same respect?
Anyways, I get up and excuse myself, telling them I forgot something back at the house.
I get up, flexing my hand and feeling my chest tight. I go around the gazebo, everything coming muffled to my ears.
“You’re the moon!” Jake’s voice breaks through, and I turn around, frowning. “In the hospital, you said you were a black hole, but you’re the moon.”
“You heard that?” I freeze, mortified, and he walks a little closer, hands in his varsity jacket.
“I thought I was dreaming, but yeah…You’re not gonna destroy us if that’s what you’re worried about.” He looks up, eyes burying mine. “Truth is, you have always surrounded me, pulling me towards you without meaning to.” He frowns at his words. “This moon thing is getting really cheesy. The point
is,
I love you.” He exhales deeply.
“
All of you. The good, the bad, and everything in between.”
I try blinking away all the emotions rising up.
“But I also know this is the third time I’m telling you this, and I don’t want to make you feel pressured or uncomfortable-”
I stop him by grabbing his collar and kissing him.
“Of course I love you.” I whisper, and he stops, shocked. “I never thought it was even
possible
to feel like this.”
“Like what?” He questions, and I feel my eyes watering.
“Like wanting to know where you are or what you’re doing. And going crazy when I don’t know. It’s scary, the power you have over me.” I swallow my tears, and he breathes out. “I mean, last time someone I-” I stop myself, not really sure I want to take the step. “I loved, chose to leave me, I couldn’t handle it.” I wipe a tear coming from overflowing eyes. “It hurt so much, and I don’t think I can handle going through it again.”
“Mads?”
I look up reluctantly at him, and he wipes my tears.
“I have loved you since we were nine, when I didn’t even know what love was. I wrote songs, and every song on the radio was about you. It killed me every time I saw you just as much talking to another guy, so, even if you have a psychotic break, I promise you, I’m going to have a way worse one. We’ll be crazy together, how about that?”
I wipe my nose, and he holds my face.
“I hate to break it to you, Brown, but I’m pretty much obsessed with you. And I will never let you down. Because if I ever did, I think it would actually
physically
kill me.”
“But how do you know I’m not just the thrill of the chase?” I hate how insecure I sound, but it’s still a valid question considering his past.
“Deep down, I thought that too. But when we kissed that night, something changed. And when Amanda kissed me- I didn’t feel anything.” He searches my eyes. “And I
knew
you had changed everything.” Pause. “I’ve met many girls throughout my
life. But only one managed to make me fall in love every damn day.”
“Really?” I smile like a little kid.
“Really.” He smirks, barely containing his happiness.
“Okay.” I shrug and turn around to leave, but he catches me from behind, making me laugh. “I love you! Now let me get my pills!”
Even though I don’t feel like I need them anymore.
“
Woman
, I have waited years for this.” He picks me up while I pretend to want to get away.
“You’re so
needy
.” I joke, and he moves his head up and down.
“For you?
Absolutely
.” He turns me around and holds me close to him, our faces inches apart.
I can’t take it anymore, and with both hands, I bring his head down to me, and we collide. Even though the kiss that night shattered me, this one is different. It marks the start of
our
life. It’s years of tension and wanting all sucked into one moment. I bury my hands in his hair, and he holds me like he’s never letting me go. He takes his time making me feel wanted, and this is not just another Jake West spectacle in front of the whole town. This is sweet and everlasting. This is watching your comfort movie on a rainy day by the fireplace. This is what I thought a true love’s kiss was like when I was little.
I stop us and let my nose rest against his, the biggest smile on my face. He slides me down and wraps his arms around me, giving me a heartfelt hug. I hug him back, head resting against his chest. It’s like he’s showing me, with a simple embrace, that he’s the lighthouse in the middle of the storm that is my life. No matter how shitty things get, he never turns out the light. He never did, actually. We might have had rough patches, but if anything, he was still there, holding a tiny lantern, reluctant and telling me to come inside.
And Emily
was
right. This does feel like home.
He
feels like home.
OceanofPDF.com

51
Your Favorite Leo’s Birthday (aka The Epilogue)
I have been to Jake’s birthdays since I can remember. My gift was the fact that I was there and wasn’t hosing him off. But now, I’m his
girlfriend
.
And I’ve never done this before, you know?
“You know, you’re clever.”
Jake hums, looking up from the book he’s reading.
“Making me your girlfriend right before your birthday, so now I have the responsibility to give you an amazing present.” I narrow my eyes at him.
“Yes, a lot of scheming.
For years.
” He agrees, going back to the book.
I mean, I do have an idea, but is it too basic? He’s a loud person in a good way, and I don’t want him to think I don’t know
him or what he likes. Like, what if this is a gift I’d like to receive and not him?
Leave Before You Love Me by the Jonas Brothers
plays on the old radio Miss Patty keeps around the library.
I hum along while staring off into the distance, overthinking my gift.
Then I remember our baby faces. And the way my cheeks must have been hurting by the way I was smiling, and how excited he looked to be photographing me, and my doubts fade away.
“Stop it.” Jake says, lifting his eyes from the book.
“What?” I ask, not so discreetly trying not to smile.
“You’re making me lose focus on the book.” He shakes it lightly in front of me.
“How so?” I question, curiosity getting the better of me.
“Your face is doing that thing when you get excited about something.” He accuses, with frowning eyes and a finger pointed at me. “Like when you see me.” He smirks like an idiot.
I roll my eyes, and he rolls back, taunting me. I get up smiling and force the book to his face.
“
Read
.”
He catches my hand and lays a kiss on the palm, and I blush.
“Those red cheeks make my day.” He laughs, and I pretend to be annoyed at the words he always throws back at me.
“I have to go.” I inform Miss Patty with a knowing look.
I have to get home to write the title on the photo and wrap the photo and frame.
“Why?” Jake asks, with a mischievous tone.
He knows exactly why
.
“I’m going to non ya.” I respond earnestly, and he doesn’t understand at first.
“Non ya?”
“Non ya business.” I childishly quip back, and he rolls his eyes.
“Oh, so you’re five now?” He crosses his arms.
“We’re finally the same age…” I respond, walking backwards towards the door, and he nods, amused.
“I love you!” He calls back before turning to the book.
“I know!” I say as I’m closing the door.
See, I did that because I know he’s coming after me. And
I know
I’m an attention seeker… Sue me for wanting the hottest boy in town coming after me, demanding a kiss.
Seconds later, I hear footsteps behind me, just as I slow down and take tiny steps. He hugs me from behind, stopping me from going home.
“You think you’re clever, huh?” He says, burying his head on my shoulder while I bite my lip.
“Takes one to know one.”
“Say it back.”
“Hmm…” I hum out loud. I let the back of my head rest against him.
“Tell me you love me right now.” He demands, and I beam.
“Love you too.” I spin within his embrace and kiss his nose, then run away while he stares at me, looking like he was just struck by lightning. I’m turning onto our street when I hear his voice in the distance.
“Don’t be late!” I grab the wall that separates both streets to look at him and shrug.
When I get to the house, I take the quickest shower in my life. I’ve never dressed up as quickly as I am doing right now. Allison mocks me, already ready.
“I never thought I’d live to see the day you hurried up for something.” She lets out, leaning against the door as I put on Chapstick. I put it down and grab the Lightning McQueen paper bag. It’s his favorite movie ever, even though he tells people it’s
Revenge Of The Sith. I go down the stairs, each step faster than the previous one, as if I’m a kid again, proud of my present and kinda nervous too.
I annoy everyone out of the house, and soon enough, we’re opening their gate — my dad has a spare key — and stepping into a lit garden with tiny lamps floating above in the trees and between them. Their dining table is standing with too many chairs and too many dishes. Emily greets us, stepping out with food platters. Hello and Hi all over the place as I see Jake’s other grandparents and English family standing around and chatting. Even Patrick and Linda are here, with their little newborn Rosie.
Suddenly, I’m very embarrassed while carrying my cartoon paper bag.
I try to hide it and discreetly place it in the present pile.
I go and get snacks.
“Is the Cars paper bag yours?” Whom I recognize as Jake’s older cousin, Kate, asks.
“Uh, yes…” I say kind of flustered.
“Please never stop humbling him, I beg.” She smiles kindly, and I laugh.
“Oh, I’m the person for that, for sure.”
“Yes, she is.” Graham joins us, followed by the group.
“And how Jake is related to
you
is nature’s biggest mystery. Aaron.” He introduces himself, trying to flirt, and Kate is trying not to roll her eyes, I’m sure.
“Kate. Happily taken.” She smiles back, almost smirking at his weak attempt.
“She’s dating Jack Gray, dipshit.” Graham corrects, almost ashamed to be related to Aaron. The latter only counters with a shrug, and Graham sighs. “Soccer player? Led England to win the Eurocup? Epic game by the way.”
“How am I supposed to know? I don’t watch soccer!” He takes out a cigarette from his pocket and lights it. “
Why on Earth would I watch soccer…
”
“Yes, and he’d have an episode hearing you call it soccer.” She adds, and Graham nods as if he doesn’t blame him. “I suppose you’re Jake’s friends?”
“The moron pack, as she likes to call us.” Aaron blows out the smoke, and I freeze. “Don’t worry, I get it. It’s difficult to think otherwise when you have the Graham and Jake combo.”
“Happy birthday!” Paige yells as she hugs Jake’s waist, and we all turn to look at him.
His whole face lights up, and he hugs back. She steps away, and he takes her hands.
“So what did you buy me?” He asks, and she rolls her eyes.
“I’m not telling you, mister. That’s a secret!” She scrunches her nose, and he purses his lips and frowns.
“You’re supposed to be six years old.” He huffs, and she giggles.
“I’m six, not stupid.” She rolls her eyes again while she runs away to play with the dog.
“Happy Birthday!” I burst, throwing my arms around him.
“That’s the third time today.” He states, while my face drops.
“Shut up before I go get the hose.” This time, his face drops, not so fond memories filling his brain for sure. Then I realize he hasn’t seen his cousin from the other side of the world since Christmas and drop my arms, ashamed.
“Oh, sorry, I-”
“No worries.” She dismisses and walks up to him, giving him a quick hug.
Soon enough, everyone gathers to have dinner. Everyone’s talking and laughing, all while telling stories about Jake. Emily excuses herself and appears with a lit cake, and we all get up to cheer on the birthday boy. I’m sitting next to him and am
privileged to see his face light up as he watches every loved one sing him happy birthday. He blows the candles, everyone claps, and he turns to me and pecks my lips. I blush when everyone cheers louder, and he kisses the side of my head.
“Time for presents!” Miss Patty gets up and moves to the pile to get the biggest present on it. I feel myself shrinking in my chair, and I don’t even know what it is yet.
He hugs her and starts unwrapping the guitar he has been talking about for a year now.
His eyes shine, and he hugs Miss Patty again, but more emotionally.
“Thanks grandma.”
“You deserve it.” She kisses his cheek, and one by one, everyone gifts him fun games, clothes, and basically all this stuff he has been wanting for forever.
Oh, I hate myself right now.
I’m giving him a miserable photo!
I can’t give it to him
now
. Especially after everyone saw the guitar.
Miss Patty arches an eyebrow.
No
, I mouth to her, and she rolls her eyes, hands on her hips.
“Maddie has something, too.” She says.
I glare while he turns his gaze to me once again.
“I don’t. I forgot.” I burst. Clearly, I didn’t forget anything. The lonely, childish small bag on top of the table can attest that.
“Then who’s the owner of the Lightning McQueen bag?” Joey asks, and I bury my head in my hands.
“You brought me a Cars bag?” Jake chuckles, happy.
“It’s for later…” I end up saying.
At least, it’s not in front of all these people.
“Dirty present? Didn’t know you had it in you, Madelaine.” Aaron comments, arms crossed, with an arched eyebrow, and
I die.
“NO! No, I promise.” My eyes dart to my dad. “Dad, I swear-”
He only laughs along with
Jake’s entire family.
And thank god, later came. My family went home, and the Wests went inside, leaving me with him and an empty table, illuminated by tiny lamps.
We sit next to each other, facing the front of the house. I pass him the bag sideways.
“It’s not a guitar but, uh, I thought it could mean something.”
I play with my fingers, letting a glance escape my eyes to his. He opens it carefully so he doesn’t ruin the bag, and takes a frame from inside.
That photo I found when we were little shines a curious light. Maybe it’s the tiny lamps, or maybe it’s his smile. But something makes it brighter. I look forward, my chest a bit lighter, while my hands drop on the table.
He examines it carefully, as if he could break the moment.
“Mads, this is-” He stutters and carefully places the frame on top of the table. “It’s beautiful, thanks.” He kisses my forehead, and I bite my lip.
“Really?”
“Of
course
. This is better than anything you could have bought me. You can’t buy these faces.” He points at us, genuinely happy.
“There’s something on the back. "
He frowns and carefully removes the photo from the frame. After contemplating a bit longer, he turns the photo around. The date is scribbled there.
7/7/2011
. And just above, with my messy handwriting, it reads,
The actual first time you made me smile.
“I was always good at that, wasn’t I?” His voice mutters, and I nod, smiling.
He kisses me, and I barely contain my happiness. Not that this changes us or anything. After all, we will always be Madelaine and Jake, Brown and West, fighting for everything and for nothing all at once. Usually his fault.
OceanofPDF.com

52
Bonus Headcannons
When Jake taps the bike’s helmet three times, it means I love you. So he freaked out after doing that the first time Madelaine got on his bike.
Jake didn’t forget about the last thing on the Never list, so he dared Madelaine to get a guy’s number at a random party. She couldn’t care less about that, but he still loved to see his job as her hype man accomplished.
Jake called and apologized to every girl he hurt, including Amanda.
Their wedding song was
Photograph by Ed Sheeran
, but they didn’t forget about Adore You. They slow danced to it in the kitchen all the time.
Madelaine and Jake had five children, all named after fictional characters, except one, in which Madelaine tricked Jake. The names are, from eldest to youngest, Luke (Skywalker from Star Wars), Charlie (Weasley from Harry
Potter), Lily (Evans from Harry Potter), Louis (Tomlinson from One Direction or Jake’s middle name), and Peter (Parker from Spider-Man)
Madelaine only truly stopped resenting her mom when she held Luke for the first time.
Jake went on to become a successful singer and songwriter, being credited on a lot of hits, including for his cousin.
Jake got to sell out arenas and stadiums, but no matter which stage he played, he always did an acoustic performance of Golden Eyes, the first song he ever wrote, also about Madelaine.
John found company and a different type of love in one of his sister’s friends, Julie, also a widow. He still visited Sky every year.
Sky was a History teacher, and Lindsey followed in her footsteps, becoming a Biology teacher instead, but that’s another story…
Yes, Riden eventually got the girl (Allison).
Madelaine owns two bookshops, one in Pennsylvania — where she and Jake settled down — and one that used to be Ms. Patty’s library, which she inherited.
John reached out to Sky’s brother, Cameron, and despite all the estrangement, he quickly became part of the family and shared a strong bond with Lindsey.
Rosie (Patrick & Linda’s daughter) became the Brown-Wests’ babysitter.
OceanofPDF.com

53
Acknowledgments
First of all, to my cousins who whined about not being mentioned in the last book, António, Bernardo, and António, I guess you helped my football knowledge a bit over the years, and I love you all, even though you can be very annoying.
To all the strangers who reached out to me after I wrote my first book and made me feel heard in one of the hardest markets to sell, especially as a Portuguese unknown writer. Believe me, I take your words very seriously and keep them close to my heart.
To my grandma, whom I was named after. I never knew her, but she was an independent, resilient lady born in February, just like me. I think you helped me more than I’ll ever realize, and somehow still took care of your family from up there. I would’ve loved to know you, and I think you would be proud of me.
And lastly, to my 13-year-old self. Thanks to the fantasies you made up in your head when you were locked away in a small
town in 2020, we now have a whole book. Never stop being delusional; it pays off.
OceanofPDF.com

54
Agradecimentos
Antes de tudo, aos meus primos, que se queixaram sobre o facto de não terem sido mencionados no último livro — António, Bernardo e António. Vocês até ajudaram o meu conhecimento sobre futebol ao longo dos anos e eu adoro-vos, mesmo que consigam ser muito chatos às vezes.
A todas as pessoas que me contactaram depois de eu ter lançado o meu primeiro livro e fizeram-me sentir ouvida num dos mercados mais difíceis de se vender, especialmente como uma autora portuguesa desconhecida. Acreditem, eu levo o que me dizem muito a sério e mantenho as vossas palavras junto do meu coração.
À minha avó, cujo nome eu partilho em honra dela. Nunca a conheci, mas sei que era uma mulher independente e resiliente nascida em fevereiro, tal como eu. Acho que a avó me ajudou mais do que alguma vez irei compreender e sabe-se lá como,
ainda cuidou de toda a sua família daí de cima. Teria amado conhecê-la e acho que estaria orgulhosa de mim.
E por último, à minha eu de 13 anos. Por causa das tuas fantasias enquanto estavas fechada numa aldeia em 2020, temos todo um livro. Nunca pares de ser iludida. Até compensa.
OceanofPDF.com

Also by M. K. Lewis
Want to know about Mary Kate’s — Jake’s cousin — story about her rise to fame and love story with famous soccer player Jack Gray?
Muse of The Match (Standalone Prequel To The Never List)
Mary Kate Lowe just wanted to be a singer — not a chauffeur for England’s most hated (and somehow still dreamy) football star.
But when Jack Gray crashes into her quiet farm life with a bruised ego and a need for scenic healing, she’s stuck driving him around the countryside. Between fake marriages, minor hospital visits, and one weird and themed manor, Mary Kate’s autumn takes a turn for the wildly unexpected.
The Muse of The Match — fame is messy, love is messier, and farm girls really do have all the fun.
OceanofPDF.com