









OceanofPDF.com













Tess of the d’Urbervilles


Thomas Hardy


OceanofPDF.com













© 2003, 2007 by Spark Publishing


This Spark Publishing edition 2014 by SparkNotes LLC, an Affiliate of Barnes & Noble


All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means (including electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise) without prior written permission from the publisher.


Sparknotes is a registered trademark of SparkNotes LLC


Spark Publishing

A Division of Barnes & Noble

120 Fifth Avenue

New York, NY 10011


www.sparknotes.com /


ISBN-13: 978-1-4114-7855-8


Please submit changes or report errors to 
www.sparknotes.com/
.


10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1


OceanofPDF.com













Contents




Context


Plot Overview


Character List


Analysis of Major Characters


Themes, Motifs & Symbols


Part 1


Part 2


Part 3


Part 4


Part 5


Part 6


Part 7


Part 8


Part 9


Part 10


Part 11


Part 12


Part 13


Important Quotations Explained


Key Facts


Study Questions and Essay Topics


Quiz and Suggestions for Further Reading


OceanofPDF.com













Context


T
homas Hardy was born
 on
         June 
2
, 
1840
, in Higher Bockhampton
         in Dorset, a rural region of southwestern England that was to become
         the focus of his fiction. The child of a builder, Hardy was apprenticed
         at the age of sixteen to John Hicks, an architect who lived in the
         city of Dorchester. The location would later serve as the model
         for Hardy’s fictional Casterbridge. Although he gave serious thought
         to attending university and entering the church, a struggle he would
         dramatize in his novel 
Jude the Obscure,
 declining
         religious faith and lack of money led Hardy to pursue a career in
         writing instead. He spent nearly a dozen years toiling in obscurity
         and producing unsuccessful novels and poetry. 
Far from the
            Madding Crowd,
 published in 
1874
,
         was the author’s first critical and financial success. Finally able
         to support himself as a writer, Hardy married Emma Lavinia Gifford
         later that year.
      


	Although he built a reputation as a successful novelist,
         Hardy considered himself first and foremost a poet. To him, novels
         were primarily a means of earning a living. Like many of his contemporaries,
         he first published his novels in periodic installments in magazines
         or serial journals, and his work reflects the conventions of serialization.
         To ensure that readers would buy a serialized novel, writers often
         structured each installment to be something of a cliffhanger, which
         explained the convoluted, often incredible plots of many such Victorian
         novels. But Hardy cannot solely be labeled a Victorian novelist.
         Nor can he be categorized simply as a Modernist, in the tradition
         of writers like Virginia Woolf or D. H. Lawrence, who were determined
         to explode the conventions of nineteenth-century literature and
         build a new kind of novel in its place. In many respects, Hardy
         was trapped in the middle ground between the nineteenth and twentieth
         centuries, between Victorian sensibilities and more modern ones,
         and between tradition and innovation.
      


	Soon after 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles
 (
1891
)
         was published, its sales assured Hardy’s financial future. But the
         novel also aroused a substantial amount of controversy. In 
Tess
            of the d’Urbervilles
 and other novels, Hardy demonstrates
         his deep sense of moral sympathy for England’s lower classes, particularly
         for rural women. He became famous for his compassionate, often controversial
         portrayal of young women victimized by the self-righteous rigidity
         of English social morality. Perhaps his most famous depiction of
         such a young woman is in 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles.
 This
         novel and the one that followed it, 
Jude the Obscure
 (
1895
),
         engendered widespread public scandal with their comparatively frank
         look at the sexual hypocrisy of English society.
      


	Hardy lived and wrote in a time of difficult social change,
         when England was making its slow and painful transition from an
         old-fashioned, agricultural nation to a modern, industrial one.
         Businessmen and entrepreneurs, or “new money,” joined the ranks
         of the social elite, as some families of the ancient aristocracy,
         or “old money,” faded into obscurity. Tess’s family in 
Tess
            of the d’Urbervilles
 illustrates this change, as Tess’s
         parents, the Durbeyfields, lose themselves in the fantasy of belonging
         to an ancient and aristocratic family, the d’Urbervilles. Hardy’s
         novel strongly suggests that such a family history is not only meaningless
         but also utterly undesirable. Hardy’s views on the subject were
         appalling to conservative and status-conscious British readers,
         and 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles
 was met in England
         with widespread controversy.
      


	Hardy was frustrated by the controversy caused by his
         work, and he finally abandoned novel-writing altogether following 
Jude
            the Obscure.
 He spent the rest of his career writing poetry.
         Though today he is remembered somewhat more for his novels, he was
         an acclaimed poet in his time and was buried in the prestigious
         Poet’s Corner of Westminster Abbey following his death in 
1928
.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Plot Overview


T
he poor peddler John Durbeyfield
 is
         stunned to learn that he is the descendent of an ancient noble family, the
         d’Urbervilles. Meanwhile, Tess, his eldest daughter, joins the other
         village girls in the May Day dance, where Tess briefly exchanges
         glances with a young man. Mr. Durbeyfield and his wife decide to
         send Tess to the d’Urberville mansion, where they hope Mrs. d’Urberville
         will make Tess’s fortune. In reality, Mrs. d’Urberville is no relation
         to Tess at all: her husband, the merchant Simon Stokes, simply changed
         his name to d’Urberville after he retired. But Tess does not know
         this fact, and when the lascivious Alec d’Urberville, Mrs. d’Urberville’s
         son, procures Tess a job tending fowls on the d’Urberville estate,
         Tess has no choice but to accept, since she blames herself for an
         accident involving the family’s horse, its only means of income.
      


	Tess spends several months at this job, resisting Alec’s
         attempts to seduce her. Finally, Alec takes advantage of her in
         the woods one night after a fair. Tess knows she does not love Alec.
         She returns home to her family to give birth to Alec’s child, whom
         she christens Sorrow. Sorrow dies soon after he is born, and Tess
         spends a miserable year at home before deciding to seek work elsewhere.
         She finally accepts a job as a milkmaid at the Talbothays Dairy.
      


	At Talbothays, Tess enjoys a period of contentment and
         happiness. She befriends three of her fellow milkmaids—Izz, Retty,
         and Marian—and meets a man named Angel Clare, who turns out to be the
         man from the May Day dance at the beginning of the novel. Tess and
         Angel slowly fall in love. They grow closer throughout Tess’s time
         at Talbothays, and she eventually accepts his proposal of marriage.
         Still, she is troubled by pangs of conscience and feels she should
         tell Angel about her past. She writes him a confessional note and
         slips it under his door, but it slides under the carpet and Angel never
         sees it.
      


	After their wedding, Angel and Tess both confess indiscretions: Angel
         tells Tess about an affair he had with an older woman in London,
         and Tess tells Angel about her history with Alec. Tess forgives Angel,
         but Angel cannot forgive Tess. He gives her some money and boards
         a ship bound for Brazil, where he thinks he might establish a farm.
         He tells Tess he will try to accept her past but warns her not to try
         to join him until he comes for her.
      


	Tess struggles. She has a difficult time finding work
         and is forced to take a job at an unpleasant and unprosperous farm.
         She tries to visit Angel’s family but overhears his brothers discussing
         Angel’s poor marriage, so she leaves. She hears a wandering preacher
         speak and is stunned to discover that he is Alec d’Urberville, who
         has been converted to Christianity by Angel’s father, the Reverend
         Clare. Alec and Tess are each shaken by their encounter, and Alec
         appallingly begs Tess never to tempt him again. Soon after, however,
         he again begs Tess to marry him, having turned his back on his -religious
         ways.
      


	Tess learns from her sister Liza-Lu that her mother is
         near death, and Tess is forced to return home to take care of her.
         Her mother recovers, but her father unexpectedly dies soon after.
         When the family is evicted from their home, Alec offers help. But
         Tess refuses to accept, knowing he only wants to obligate her to
         him again.
      


	At last, Angel decides to forgive his wife. He leaves
         Brazil, desperate to find her. Instead, he finds her mother, who
         tells him Tess has gone to a village called Sandbourne. There, he
         finds Tess in an expensive boardinghouse called The Herons, where
         he tells her he has forgiven her and begs her to take him back.
         Tess tells him he has come too late. She was unable to resist and
         went back to Alec d’Urberville. Angel leaves in a daze, and, heartbroken
         to the point of madness, Tess goes upstairs and stabs her lover
         to death. When the landlady finds Alec’s body, she raises an alarm,
         but Tess has already fled to find Angel.
      


	Angel agrees to help Tess, though he cannot quite believe
         that she has actually murdered Alec. They hide out in an empty mansion
         for a few days, then travel farther. When they come to Stonehenge,
         Tess goes to sleep, but when morning breaks shortly thereafter,
         a search party discovers them. Tess is arrested and sent to jail.
         Angel and Liza-Lu watch as a black flag is raised over the prison,
         signaling Tess’s execution.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Character List




Tess Durbeyfield 
 - The novel’s protagonist. Tess is a beautiful, loyal
            young woman living with her impoverished family in the village of
            Marlott. Tess has a keen sense of responsibility and is committed
            to doing the best she can for her family, although her inexperience
            and lack of wise parenting leave her extremely vulnerable. Her life
            is complicated when her father discovers a link to the noble line
            of the d’Urbervilles, and, as a result, Tess is sent to work at
            the d’Urberville mansion. Unfortunately, her ideals cannot prevent
            her from sliding further and further into misfortune after she becomes
            pregnant by Alec d’Urberville. The terrible irony is that Tess and
            her family are not really related to this branch of the d’Urbervilles
            at all: Alec’s father, a merchant named Simon Stokes, simply assumed
            the name after he retired.
         






Angel Clare
 -  An
            intelligent young man who has decided to become a farmer to preserve
            his intellectual freedom from the pressures of city life. Angel’s
            father and his two brothers are respected clergymen, but Angel’s religious
            doubts have kept him from joining the ministry. He meets Tess when
            she is a milkmaid at the Talbothays Dairy and quickly falls in love
            with her.
         






Alec d’Urberville 
 - The handsome, amoral son of a wealthy merchant named
            Simon Stokes. Alec is not really a d’Urberville—his father simply
            took on the name of the ancient noble family after he built his
            mansion and retired. Alec is a manipulative, sinister young man
            who does everything he can to seduce the inexperienced Tess when
            she comes to work for his family. When he finally has his way with
            her, out in the woods, he subsequently tries to help her but is
            unable to make her love him.
         






Mr. John Durbeyfield
 -  Tess’s father, a lazy peddler in Marlott. John is
            naturally quick, but he hates work. When he learns that he descends
            from the noble line of the d’Urbervilles, he is quick to make an
            attempt to profit from the connection.
         






Mrs. Joan Durbeyfield
 -  Tess’s mother. Joan has a strong sense of propriety
            and very particular hopes for Tess’s life. She is continually disappointed
            and hurt by the way in which her daughter’s life actually proceeds.
            But she is also somewhat simpleminded and naturally forgiving, and she
            is unable to remain angry with Tess—particularly once Tess becomes
            her primary means 
            of support.
         






Mrs. d’Urberville
 -  Alec’s mother, and the widow of Simon Stokes. Mrs.
            d’Urberville is blind and often ill. She cares deeply for her animals,
            but not for her maid Elizabeth, her son Alec, nor Tess when she
            comes to work for her. In fact, she never sees Tess as anything
            more than an impoverished girl.
         






Marian, Izz Huett, and Retty Priddle
 -  Milkmaids whom Tess befriends at the Talbothays
            Dairy. Marian, Izz, and Retty remain close to Tess throughout the
            rest of her life. They are all in love with Angel and are devastated when
            he chooses Tess over them: Marian turns to drink, Retty attempts
            suicide, and Izz nearly runs off to Brazil with Angel when he leaves
            Tess. Nevertheless, they remain helpful to Tess. Marian helps her
            find a job at a farm called Flintcomb-Ash, and Marian and Izz write
            Angel a plaintive letter encouraging him to give Tess another chance.
         






Reverend Clare
 -  Angel’s
            father, a somewhat intractable but principled clergyman in the town
            of Emminster. Mr. Clare considers it his duty to convert the populace.
            One of his most difficult cases proves to be none other than Alec
            d’Urberville.
         






Mrs. Clare
 - 	Angel’s
            mother, a loving but snobbish woman who places great stock in social
            class. Mrs. Clare wants Angel to marry a suitable woman, meaning
            a woman with the proper social, financial, and religious background.
            Mrs. Clare initially looks down on Tess as a “simple” and impoverished
            girl, but later grows to appreciate her.
         






Reverend Felix Clare
 -  Angel’s brother, a village curate.
         






Reverend Cuthbert
 -  Clare Angel’s brother, a classical scholar and dean
            at Cambridge. Cuthbert, who can concentrate only on university matters,
            marries Mercy Chant.
         






Eliza Louisa Durbeyfield
 -  Tess’s younger sister. Tess believes Liza-Lu has
            all of Tess’s own good qualities and none of her bad ones, and she
            encourages Angel to look after and even marry Liza-Lu after Tess
            dies.
         






Sorrow
 - 	Tess’s
            son with Alec d’Urberville. Sorrow dies in his early infancy, after
            Tess christens him herself. She later buries him herself as well,
            and decorates his grave.
         






Mercy Chant
 -  The
            daughter of a friend of the Reverend Clare. Mr. Clare hopes Angel
            will marry Mercy, but after Angel marries Tess, Mercy becomes engaged
            to his brother Cuthbert instead.
         




OceanofPDF.com













Analysis of Major Characters




Tess Durbeyfield


Intelligent, strikingly attractive, and distinguished
            by her deep moral sensitivity and passionate intensity, Tess is
            indisputably the central character of the novel that bears her name.
            But she is also more than a distinctive individual: Hardy makes
            her into somewhat of a mythic heroine. Her name, formally Theresa,
            recalls St. Teresa of Avila, another martyr whose vision of a higher
            reality cost her her life. Other characters often refer to Tess
            in mythical terms, as when Angel calls her a “Daughter of Nature”
            in Chapter XVIII, or refers to her by the Greek mythological names
            “Artemis” and “Demeter” in Chapter XX. The narrator himself sometimes
            describes Tess as more than an individual woman, but as something
            closer to a mythical incarnation of womanhood. In Chapter XIV, he
            says that her eyes are “neither black nor blue nor grey nor violet;
            rather all these shades together,” like “an almost standard woman.”
            Tess’s story may thus be a “standard” story, representing a deeper
            and larger experience than that of a single individual.
         


	In part, Tess represents the changing role of the agricultural workers
            in England in the late nineteenth century. Possessing an education
            that her unschooled parents lack, since she has passed the Sixth
            Standard of the National Schools, Tess does not quite fit into the
            folk culture of her predecessors, but financial constraints keep her
            from rising to a higher station in life. She belongs in that higher world,
            however, as we discover on the first page of the novel with the news
            that the Durbeyfields are the surviving members of the noble and
            ancient family of the d’Urbervilles. There is aristocracy in Tess’s blood,
            visible in her graceful beauty—yet she is forced to work as a farmhand
            and milkmaid. When she tries to express her joy by singing lower-class
            folk ballads at the beginning of the third part of the novel, they
            do not satisfy her—she seems not quite comfortable with those popular
            songs. But, on the other hand, her diction, while more polished
            than her mother’s, is not quite up to the level of Alec’s or Angel’s.
            She is in between, both socially and culturally. Thus, Tess is a
            symbol of unclear and unstable notions of class in nineteenth-century
            Britain, where old family lines retained their earlier glamour, but
            where cold economic realities made sheer wealth more important than
            inner nobility.
         


	Beyond her social symbolism, Tess represents fallen humanity
            in a religious sense, as the frequent biblical allusions in the
            novel remind us. Just as Tess’s clan was once glorious and powerful
            but is now sadly diminished, so too did the early glory of the first
            humans, Adam and Eve, fade with their expulsion from Eden, making humans
            sad shadows of what they once were. Tess thus represents what is
            known in Christian theology as 
original sin,
 the
            degraded state in which all humans live, even when—like Tess herself
            after killing Prince or succumbing to Alec—they are not wholly or directly
            responsible for the sins for which they are punished. This torment
            represents the most universal side of Tess: she is the myth of the
            human who suffers for crimes that are not her own and lives a life
            more degraded than she deserves.
         






Alec d’Urberville 


An insouciant twenty-four-year-old man, heir to a fortune,
            and bearer of a name that his father purchased, Alec is the nemesis
            and downfall of Tess’s life. His first name, Alexander, suggests
            the conqueror—as in Alexander the Great—who seizes what he wants regardless
            of moral propriety. Yet he is more slippery than a grand conqueror.
            His full last name, Stoke-d’Urberville, symbolizes the split character
            of his family, whose origins are simpler than their pretensions
            to grandeur. After all, Stokes is a blunt and inelegant name. Indeed,
            the divided and duplicitous character of Alec is evident to the
            very end of the novel, when he quickly abandons his newfound Christian
            faith upon remeeting Tess. It is hard to believe Alec holds his
            religion, or anything else, sincerely. His supposed conversion may
            only be a new role he is playing.
         


	This duplicity of character is so intense in Alec, and
            its consequences for Tess so severe, that he becomes diabolical.
            The first part of his surname conjures associations with fiery energies,
            as in the stoking of a furnace or the flames of hell. His devilish
            associations are evident when he wields a pitchfork while addressing
            Tess early in the novel, and when he seduces her as the serpent
            in Genesis seduced Eve. Additionally, like the famous depiction
            of Satan in Milton’s 
Paradise Lost,
 Alec does not
            try to hide his bad qualities. In fact, like Satan, he revels in
            them. In Chapter XII, he bluntly tells Tess, “I suppose I am a bad
            fellow—a damn bad fellow. I was born bad, and I have lived bad,
            and I shall die bad, in all probability.” There is frank acceptance
            in this admission and no shame. Some readers feel Alec is too wicked
            to be believable, but, like Tess herself, he represents a larger
            moral principle rather than a real individual man. Like Satan, Alec
            symbolizes the base forces of life that drive a person away from
            moral perfection and greatness.
         






Angel Clare 


A freethinking son born into the family of a provincial
            parson and determined to set himself up as a farmer instead of going
            to Cambridge like his conformist brothers, Angel represents a rebellious striving
            toward a personal vision of goodness. He is a secularist who yearns
            to work for the “honor and glory of man,” as he tells his father
            in Chapter XVIII, rather than for the honor and glory of God in
            a more distant world. A typical young nineteenth-century progressive,
            Angel sees human society as a thing to be remolded and improved,
            and he fervently believes in the nobility of man. He rejects the
            values handed to him, and sets off in search of his own. His love
            for Tess, a mere milkmaid and his social inferior, is one expression
            of his disdain for tradition. This independent spirit contributes
            to his aura of charisma and general attractiveness that makes him
            the love object of all the milkmaids with whom he works at Talbothays.
         


	As his name—in French, close to “Bright Angel”—suggests, Angel
            is not quite of this world, but floats above it in a transcendent sphere
            of his own. The narrator says that Angel shines rather than burns
            and that he is closer to the intellectually aloof poet Shelley than
            to the fleshly and passionate poet Byron. His love for Tess may be
            abstract, as we guess when he calls her “Daughter of Nature” or “Demeter.”
            Tess may be more an archetype or ideal to him than a flesh and blood
            woman with a complicated life. Angel’s ideals of human purity are
            too elevated to be applied to actual people: Mrs. Durbeyfield’s
            easygoing moral beliefs are much more easily accommodated to real
            lives such as Tess’s. Angel awakens to the actual complexities of
            real-world morality after his failure in Brazil, and only then he
            realizes he has been unfair to Tess. His moral system is readjusted
            as he is brought down to Earth. Ironically, it is not the angel
            who guides the human in this novel, but the human who instructs
            the angel, although at the cost of her own life.
         




OceanofPDF.com













Themes, Motifs & Symbols


Themes


Themes are the fundamental and often universal ideas
         explored in a literary work.
      


The Injustice of Existence


Unfairness dominates the lives of Tess and her family
         to such an extent that it begins to seem like a general aspect of
         human existence in 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles.
 Tess
         does not mean to kill Prince, but she is punished anyway, just as
         she is unfairly punished for her own rape by Alec. Nor is there
         justice waiting in heaven. Christianity teaches that there is compensation
         in the afterlife for unhappiness suffered in this life, but the
         only devout Christian encountered in the novel may be the reverend,
         Mr. Clare, who seems more or less content in his life anyway. For
         others in their misery, Christianity offers little solace of heavenly
         justice. Mrs. Durbeyfield never mentions otherworldly rewards. The
         converted Alec preaches heavenly justice for earthly sinners, but
         his faith seems shallow and insincere. Generally, the moral atmosphere
         of the novel is not Christian justice at all, but pagan injustice.
         The forces that rule human life are absolutely unpredictable and
         not necessarily well-disposed to us. The pre-Christian rituals practiced
         by the farm workers at the opening of the novel, and Tess’s final
         rest at Stonehenge at the end, remind us of a world where the gods
         are not just and fair, but whimsical and uncaring. When the narrator
         concludes the novel with the statement that “‘Justice’ was done,
         and the President of the Immortals (in the Aeschylean phrase) had
         ended his sport with Tess,” we are reminded that justice must be
         put in ironic quotation marks, since it is not really just at all.
         What passes for “Justice” is in fact one of the pagan gods enjoying
         a bit of “sport,” or a frivolous game.
      


Changing Ideas of Social Class 
         in Victorian England
      


Tess of the d’Urbervilles
 presents complex
         pictures of both the importance of social class in nineteenth-century
         England and the difficulty of defining class in any simple way.
         Certainly the Durbeyfields are a powerful emblem of the way in which
         class is no longer evaluated in Victorian times as it would have
         been in the Middle Ages—that is, by blood alone, with no attention
         paid to fortune or worldly success. Indubitably the Durbeyfields
         have purity of blood, yet for the parson and nearly everyone else
         in the novel, this fact amounts to nothing more than a piece of
         genealogical trivia.  In the Victorian context, cash matters more
         than lineage, which explains how Simon Stokes, Alec’s father, was
         smoothly able to use his large fortune to purchase a lustrous family
         name and transform his clan into the Stoke-d’Urbervilles. The d’Urbervilles
         pass for what the Durbeyfields truly are—authentic nobility—simply
         because definitions of class have changed. The issue of class confusion
         even affects the Clare clan, whose most promising son, Angel, is
         intent on becoming a farmer and marrying a milkmaid, thus bypassing
         the traditional privileges of a Cambridge education and a parsonage. His
         willingness to work side by side with the farm laborers helps endear
         him to Tess, and their acquaintance would not have been possible
         if he were a more traditional and elitist aristocrat. Thus, the three
         main characters in the Angel-Tess-Alec triangle are all strongly marked
         by confusion regarding their respective social classes, an issue
         that is one of the main concerns of the novel.
      


Men Dominating Women


One of the recurrent themes of the novel is the way in
         which men can dominate women, exerting a power over them linked
         primarily to their maleness. Sometimes this command is purposeful,
         in the man’s full knowledge of his exploitation, as when Alec acknowledges
         how bad he is for seducing Tess for his own momentary pleasure.
         Alec’s act of abuse, the most life-altering event that Tess experiences
         in the novel, is clearly the most serious instance of male domination
         over a female. But there are other, less blatant examples of women’s
         passivity toward dominant men. When, after Angel reveals that he
         prefers Tess, Tess’s friend Retty attempts suicide and her friend
         Marian becomes an alcoholic, which makes their earlier schoolgirl-type crushes
         on Angel seem disturbing. This devotion is not merely fanciful love,
         but unhealthy obsession. These girls appear utterly dominated by
         a desire for a man who, we are told explicitly, does not even realize
         that they are interested in him. This sort of unconscious male domination
         of women is perhaps even more unsettling than Alec’s outward and
         self-conscious cruelty.
      


	Even Angel’s love for Tess, as pure and gentle as it
         seems, dominates her in an unhealthy way. Angel substitutes an idealized
         picture of Tess’s country purity for the real-life woman that he
         continually refuses to get to know. When Angel calls Tess names
         like “Daughter of Nature” and “Artemis,” we feel that he may be
         denying her true self in favor of a mental image that he prefers.
         Thus, her identity and experiences are suppressed, albeit unknowingly.
         This pattern of male domination is finally reversed with Tess’s
         murder of Alec, in which, for the first time in the novel, a woman
         takes active steps against a man. Of course, this act only leads
         to even greater suppression of a woman by men, when the crowd of
         male police officers arrest Tess at Stonehenge. Nevertheless, for
         just a moment, the accepted pattern of submissive women bowing to
         dominant men is interrupted, and Tess’s act seems heroic.
      


Motifs 


Motifs are recurring structures, contrasts, or literary
         devices that can help to develop and inform the text’s major themes.
      


Birds


Images of birds recur throughout the novel, evoking or
         contradicting their traditional spiritual association with a higher
         realm of transcendence. Both the Christian dove of peace and the
         Romantic songbirds of Keats and Shelley, which symbolize sublime
         heights, lead us to expect that birds will have positive meaning
         in this novel. Tess occasionally hears birdcalls on her frequent
         hikes across the countryside; their free expressiveness stands in
         stark contrast to Tess’s silent and constrained existence as a wronged
         and disgraced girl. When Tess goes to work for Mrs. d’Urberville,
         she is surprised to find that the old woman’s pet finches are frequently
         released to fly free throughout the room. These birds offer images
         of hope and liberation. Yet there is irony attached to birds as
         well, making us doubt whether these images of hope and freedom are
         illusory. Mrs. d’Urberville’s birds leave little white spots on
         the upholstery, which presumably some servant—perhaps Tess herself—will
         have to clean. It may be that freedom for one creature entails hardship
         for another, just as Alec’s free enjoyment of Tess’s body leads
         her to a lifetime of suffering. In the end, when Tess encounters
         the pheasants maimed by hunters and lying in agony, birds no longer
         seem free, but rather oppressed and submissive. These pheasants
         are no Romantic songbirds hovering far above the Earth—they are
         victims of earthly violence, condemned to suffer down below and
         never fly again.
      


The Book of Genesis


The Genesis story of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden
         is evoked repeatedly throughout 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles,
 giving
         the novel a broader metaphysical and philosophical dimension. The
         roles of Eve and the serpent in paradise are clearly delineated:
         Angel is the noble Adam newly born, while Tess is the indecisive
         and troubled Eve. When Tess gazes upon Angel in Chapter XXVII, “she
         regarded him as Eve at her second waking might have regarded Adam.”
         Alec, with his open avowal that he is bad to the bone, is the conniving Satan.
         He seduces Tess under a tree, giving her sexual knowledge in return
         for her lost innocence. The very name of the forest where this seduction
         occurs, the Chase, suggests how Eve will be chased from Eden for
         her sins. This guilt, which will never be erased, is known in Christian
         theology as the original sin that all humans have inherited. Just
         as John Durbeyfield is told in Chapter I that “you don’t live anywhere,”
         and his family is evicted after his death at the end of the novel,
         their homelessness evokes the human exile from Eden. Original sin
         suggests that humans have fallen from their once great status to
         a lower station in life, just as the d’Urbervilles have devolved
         into the modern Durbeyfields. This Story of the Fall—or of the “Pure Drop,”
         to recall the name of a pub in Tess’s home village—is much more
         than a social fall. It is an explanation of how all of us humans—not
         only Tess—never quite seem to live up to our expectations, and are
         never able to inhabit the places of grandeur we feel we deserve.
      


Variant Names


The transformation of the d’Urbervilles into the Durbeyfields
         is one example of the common phenomenon of renaming, or variant
         naming, in the novel. Names matter in this novel. Tess knows and accepts
         that she is a lowly Durbeyfield, but part of her still believes, as
         her parents also believe, that her aristocratic original name should
         be restored. John Durbeyfield goes a step further than Tess, and
         actually renames himself Sir John, as his tombstone epitaph shows.
         Another character who renames himself is Simon Stokes, Angel’s father,
         who purchased a family tree and made himself Simon Stoke-d’Urberville.
         The question raised by all these cases of name changing, whether
         successful or merely imagined, is the extent to which an altered
         name brings with it an altered identity. Alec acts notoriously ungentlemanly
         throughout the novel, but by the end, when he appears at the d’Urberville
         family vault, his lordly and commanding bearing make him seem almost
         deserving of the name his father has bought, like a spoiled medieval
         nobleman. Hardy’s interest in name changes makes reality itself
         seem changeable according to whims of human perspective. The village
         of Blakemore, as we are reminded twice in Chapters I and II, is
         also known as Blackmoor, and indeed Hardy famously renames the southern
         English countryside as “Wessex.” He imposes a fictional map on a
         real place, with names altered correspondingly. Reality may not
         be as solid as the names people confer upon it.
      


Symbols


Symbols are objects, characters, figures, or colors
         used to represent abstract ideas or concepts.
      


Prince


When Tess dozes off in the wagon and loses control, the
         resulting death of the Durbeyfield horse, Prince, spurs Tess to
         seek aid from the d’Urbervilles, setting the events of the novel
         in motion. The horse’s demise is thus a powerful plot motivator,
         and its name a potent symbol of Tess’s own claims to aristocracy.
         Like the horse, Tess herself bears a high-class name, but is doomed
         to a lowly life of physical labor. Interestingly, Prince’s death
         occurs right after Tess dreams of ancient knights, having just heard
         the news that her family is aristocratic. Moreover, the horse is
         pierced by the forward-jutting piece of metal on a mail coach, which
         is reminiscent of a wound one might receive in a medieval joust.
         In an odd way, Tess’s dream of medieval glory comes true, and her
         horse dies a heroic death. Yet her dream of meeting a prince while
         she kills her own Prince, and with him her family’s only means of
         financial sustenance, is a tragic foreshadowing of her own story.
         The death of the horse symbolizes the sacrifice of real-world goods,
         such as a useful animal or even her own honor, through excessive
         fantasizing about a better world.
      


The d’Urberville Family Vault


A double-edged symbol of both the majestic grandeur and
         the lifeless hollowness of the aristocratic family name that the
         Durbeyfields learn they possess, the d’Urberville family vault represents
         both the glory of life and the end of life. Since Tess herself moves
         from passivity to active murder by the end of the novel, attaining
         a kind of personal grandeur even as she brings death to others and
         to herself, the double symbolism of the vault makes it a powerful
         site for the culminating meeting between Alec and Tess. Alec brings
         Tess both his lofty name and, indirectly, her own death later; it
         is natural that he meets her in the vault in d’Urberville Aisle,
         where she reads her own name inscribed in stone and feels the presence
         of death. Yet the vault that sounds so glamorous when rhapsodized
         over by John Durbeyfield in Chapter I seems, by the end, strangely
         hollow and meaningless. When Alec stomps on the floor of the vault,
         it produces only a hollow echo, as if its basic emptiness is a complement
         to its visual grandeur. When Tess is executed, her ancestors are
         said to snooze on in their crypts, as if uncaring even about the
         fate of a member of their own majestic family. Perhaps the secret
         of the family crypt is that its grandiosity is ultimately meaningless.
      


Brazil


Rather surprising for a novel that seems set so solidly
         in rural England, the narration shifts very briefly to Brazil when
         Angel takes leave of Tess and heads off to establish a career in
         farming. Even more exotic for a Victorian English reader than America
         or Australia, Brazil is the country in which Robinson Crusoe made
         his fortune and it seems to promise a better life far from the humdrum
         familiar world. Brazil is thus more than a geographical entity on
         the map in this novel: it symbolizes a fantasyland, a place where
         dreams come true. As Angel’s name suggests, he is a lofty visionary
         who lacks some experience with the real world, despite all his mechanical know-how
         in farm management. He may be able to milk cows, but he does not
         yet know how to tell the difference between an exotic dream and
         an everyday reality, so inevitably his experience in the imagined
         dream world of Brazil is a disaster that he barely survives. His
         fiasco teaches him that ideals do not exist in life, and this lesson helps
         him reevaluate his disappointment with Tess’s imperfections, her
         failure to incarnate the ideal he expected her to be. For Angel, Brazil
         symbolizes the impossibility of ideals, but also forgiveness and
         acceptance of life in spite of those disappointed ideals.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Summary & Analysis


Phase the First: The Maiden, Chapters I–III


Summary: Chapter I




“Don’t you really know, Durbeyfield,
            that you are the lineal representative of the ancient and knightly
            family of the d’Urbervilles . . . ?”
         


(See 
Important Quotations Explained
)
         




On his way home to the village of Marlott, a middle-aged
         peddler named John Durbeyfield encounters an old parson who surprises him
         by addressing him as “Sir John.” The old man, Parson Tringham, claims
         to be a student of history and says that he recently came across
         a record indicating that Durbeyfield descends from a noble family,
         the d’Urbervilles. Tringham says that Durbeyfield’s noble roots
         come from so far back in history that they are meaningless, but Durbeyfield
         becomes quite self-important following the discovery and sends for
         a horse and carriage to carry him home.
      


Summary: Chapter II


At the same moment, Durbeyfield’s daughter Tess enjoys
         the May Day festivities with the other women from her village. Durbeyfield rides
         by in the carriage, and though Tess is embarrassed at the spectacle,
         she defends her father from the mockery of the other girls. The group
         goes to the village green for dancing, where they meet three highborn
         brothers. Tess notices one of the brothers in particular, a young
         man named Angel Clare. While his two brothers want to keep traveling,
         Angel cannot pass up the opportunity to dance with these women.
         The girls ask him to choose his partner, and he chooses a girl other
         than Tess. They dance for a short time, and then Angel leaves, realizing
         he must catch up with his determined brothers. Upon leaving, Angel
         notices Tess and regrets his decision to dance with someone else.
      


Summary: Chapter III


When Tess returns home, she receives a twofold alarm from
         her mother, Joan, who tells her that her father comes from noble
         lineage and also that he has been diagnosed with a serious heart
         condition. Mrs. Durbeyfield has consulted the 
Compleat Fortune-Teller,
 a large,
         old book, for guidance. A believer in such astrology, she keeps the
         book hidden in the outhouse out of an irrational fear of keeping it
         indoors.
      


	Mr. Durbeyfield is not home, but is instead at Rolliver’s,
         the local inn and drinking establishment, probably taking the opportunity
         to celebrate his newly discovered heritage. Tess and the family
         are not surprised to hear of his whereabouts. Tess’s mother goes
         to fetch her husband from the inn but does not return. The narrator
         explains that her failure to return may result from Mrs. Durbeyfield’s
         enjoyment in sitting at Rolliver’s with her husband, since it is
         time that they can share alone. Tess becomes worried and asks her
         little brother Abraham to go to Rolliver’s and see what is taking
         their mother and father so long to return. Sometime later, when
         still no one has returned home, Tess goes after them herself.
      


Analysis: Chapters I–III


Tess of the d’Urbervilles
 begins with
         a rich, lavish description of the landscape that provides the setting
         of the novel. This description helps establish the context and feel
         of the story that is to follow. The novel is set in Wessex, a rustic
         and historical part of southwestern England that relies heavily
         on farming. This area, as we see it, has its own distinct customs,
         rituals, beliefs, and culture, and its inhabitants speak with a
         noticeable rural accent. Hardy became well known for the richly
         detailed description in his novels, which serves an important function:
         as Hardy documents and includes many realistic details to present
         the area more fully, he enables us to enter into the story ourselves
         in a more concrete and richly imagined way.
      


	We are introduced to the Durbeyfield family on the day
         in which the legend of their distant, defunct, yet still marvelous
         aristocratic heritage is revealed. When told of this legacy, Mr.
         Durbeyfield feels immediately liberated from his poverty and low
         social stature, even though his situation does not change. Mr. Durbeyfield
         has already become enraptured in a dream that takes him from rags
         to riches. Similarly, we first meet Tess at an event that marks
         a holiday from her everyday life. At the May Day dance, all the
         young women dress in white, carry white willow branches and white
         flowers, and dance with each other. This local custom is, at its
         root, a symbolic ritual of purity and springtime. These women seem
         to enjoy the custom, perhaps because it allows them the chance to
         play a symbolic function beyond their insignificant social roles.
         The arrival of the three young brothers excites the women, heightening
         the specialness of the affair. When Angel stops to dance with one
         of them, it is as if he is a prince who has come in search of a
         princess, even if only for a dance. Most of the women, including
         Tess, are anxious to be chosen, and somewhat jealous when they are
         not. Acceptance from a handsome man from a higher social class would
         mean a lot to them. Like Mr. Durbeyfield, these young local women
         yearn to escape poverty and the low social stature that their rural
         setting allots to them.
      


	Mrs. Durbeyfield’s belief in superstitions and her trust
         in her fortune-telling book also demonstrate a strong, perhaps irrational hope
         in what the future holds. She believes that something good is meant
         to happen to her and her family and that it is only a matter of time
         until it does. Through all of these characters and actions we are introduced
         to the concept of fate, or a belief in a predetermined, unavoidable
         future. Ironically, Tess’s parents’ blind faith in their ability
         to climb the social hierarchy leads them to make costly decisions
         later in the novel. The news about their ancestry seems to augur
         a hopeful change in their fortunes, but it is really just an instrument
         in the catastrophe that fate brings about.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Chapters IV–VII


Summary: Chapter IV


At the inn, Tess’s young brother Abraham overhears Mr.
         and Mrs. Durbeyfield discussing their plans for Tess to take the
         news of her ancestry to the wealthy Mrs. d’Urberville in the hopes
         that she will make Tess’s fortune. When Tess arrives, she realizes
         her father will probably be too tired and drunk to take his load
         of beehives to the market in a few hours. Her prediction comes true,
         so she and her brother Abraham deliver them instead. On the way,
         Abraham tells Tess of their parents’ plans, and then the conversation
         veers onto the topic of astronomy. Knowing that stars contain clusters
         of worlds like their own, Abraham asks Tess if those worlds are
         better or worse than the world in which they live. Tess boldly answers
         that other stars are better and that their star is a “blighted one.”
         Tess explains that this shortcoming is the reason for all of her
         and her family’s misfortunes.
      


	Abraham falls asleep, leaving Tess to contemplate. She
         too eventually falls asleep and dreams about a “gentlemanly suitor”
         who grimaces and laughs at her. Suddenly, Tess and Abraham are awakened by
         a calamity. Their carriage has collided with the local mail cart, and
         the collision has killed Prince, their old horse. Realizing that
         the loss of their horse will be economically devastating for her
         family, Tess is overcome with guilt. The surrounding foliage seems
         to turn pale and white as Tess does. The carriage is hitched up
         to the wagon of a local farmer, who helps them bring the beehives
         toward the market in Casterbridge.
      


	Later, Tess returns home ashamed, but no one blames Tess
         more than she does herself. Tess remains the only one who recognizes
         the impact that the loss of the horse will have. The farmer helps
         them return Prince’s body back to the Durbeyfield’s home. Refusing
         to scrap or sell the body, Mr. Durbeyfield labors harder than he
         has in an entire month to bury his beloved horse.
      


Summary: Chapter V


In part because of her guilt over the horse, Tess agrees
         with her mother’s plan to send her to Mrs. d’Urberville. When she
         arrives, she does not find the crumbling old mansion she expects,
         but rather a new and fashionable home. She meets Mrs. d’Urberville’s
         son Alec, who, captivated by Tess’s beauty, agrees to try to help
         her. Alec says that his mother is unwell, but he says he will see
         what he can do for Tess.
      


Summary: Chapter VI


When Tess returns home, she finds a letter. It is from
         Mrs. d’Urberville, offering her a job tending the d’Urbervilles’
         fowls. Tess looks for other jobs closer to home, but she cannot
         find anything. Hoping to earn enough money to buy a new horse for
         her family, Tess accepts the d’Urbervilles’ job and decides to go
         back to Trantridge.
      


Summary: Chapter VII


On the day Tess is scheduled to leave for the d’Urbervilles’
         home, Mrs. Durbeyfield cajoles her into wearing her best clothes.
         Mrs. Durbeyfield dresses Tess up and is pleased by her own efforts,
         as is Mr. Durbeyfield, who begins speculating about a price at which
         he will sell their family title. When Alec arrives to retrieve Tess,
         they become uncertain that she is doing the right thing. The children
         cry, as does Mrs. Durbeyfield, who worries that Alec might try to
         take advantage of her daughter.
      


Analysis: Chapters IV–VII


Tess of the d’Urbervilles
 is rich in
         symbolism, which becomes noticeable in as Tess drives the wagon
         in Chapter IV. Tess has a dream about a man of nobility who stands
         laughing at her and looking down on her plight. Tess wakes up to
         realize that she has literally killed her Prince, the family’s horse,
         and along with it the family’s means of support. Symbolically, the
         inability of the Durbeyfields to deliver the load of beehives mirrors
         their inability to transcend their social class. Even with the knowledge
         of their supposed noble heritage, without physical productivity,
         the calamities that befall them in the present stunt the Durbeyfields’
         dreams of future social mobilization and other lofty goals. The
         novel thus prioritizes work and contribution over nobility and entitlement.
         As Prince’s death immobilizes their only marketable good, the Durbeyfields
         must suffer the tragedy that lies ahead.
      


	Tess of the d’Urbervilles
 follows a
         simple but carefully constructed pattern. Hardy establishes a set
         of basic plot mechanisms that govern the structure of his story
         and employs them without drastic variation. The novel is divided
         into seven phases, each of which tells a concise and particular
         story within the larger story of Tess’s life, and accomplishes some
         specific goals in moving Tess from her simple country life to her
         tragic circumstances at the end of her life. These chapters successively
         show Tess’s development into a responsible young adult. The responsibility
         she feels for the death of Prince compels her to pay her family
         back. This guilt leads her to visit the d’Urbervilles and puts her
         into an uncertain and potentially dangerous situation. These chapters
         also mark the beginning of her downfall, as she blindly offers to
         work at Trantridge for the sake of her family.
      


	Though it is early in the novel, distinct pictures of
         each of the characters already start to emerge. We can see Tess’s
         highly developed sense of responsibility as she answers her brother
         Abraham’s questions and completes the work neglected by her parents.
         Tess’s beauty and nobility of character are also emphasized, as
         are her strong conscience and sense of familial duty. Mr. and Mrs.
         Durbeyfield’s weaknesses—his laziness and her simplemindedness—add
         a degree of urgency to Tess’s family responsibilities. If not for
         Tess, the Durbeyfields might be very badly off indeed. Alec is obviously
         lascivious and opportunistic, an impression reinforced in every
         scene in which he appears. He is repeatedly associated with darkness
         and dark colors, reflecting the shadiness of his own character.
         From his first meeting with Tess, he behaves awkwardly and inappropriately, addressing
         her with intimate nicknames like “my pretty coz.” Alec’s unappealing
         traits are easily recognizable. To an extent, at this point in the
         novel the characters seem somewhat one-dimensional. Even Angel Clare,
         who appears only briefly in this section, is portrayed as graceful,
         kind, and life-loving, presaging what we see of him later. But at
         the same time, by giving us a strong sense of these characters and
         what kinds of things they are likely to do, Hardy is able to generate
         a great deal of suspense, drawing us into his plots of seduction, betrayal,
         and loyalty. Moreover, the changes that we see later in the novel
         seem momentous, surprising, and important after this vivid beginning.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Chapters VIII–XI


Summary: Chapter VIII


On the way to the d’Urberville estate, Alec drives recklessly,
         and Tess pleads with him to stop. He continues at a fast pace and
         tells her to hold on to his waist. She complies only out of fear
         for her safety. When traveling down the next steep hill, he urges
         her to hold on to him again, but she refuses and pleads with him
         to slow down. He agrees to drive more slowly, but only if she will
         allow him to kiss her. Tess allows him to kiss her on the cheek,
         but when she unthinkingly wipes the kiss off with her handkerchief,
         he becomes angry and outraged at her unwillingness to submit to
         his advances. They argue, and Tess finishes the journey on foot.
      


Summary: Chapter IX


The next morning Tess meets Mrs. d’Urberville for the
         first time and discovers that the old woman is blind. Tess is surprised
         by Mrs. d’Urberville’s lack of appreciation for Tess’s coming to
         work for her. Mrs. d’Urberville asks Tess to place each of the fowls
         on her lap so she can examine and pet them. She tells Tess to whistle
         to her bullfinches every morning. Tess agrees and leaves. Tess is
         later unable to blow any whistles, and Alec agrees to help her remember
         how.
      


Summary: Chapter X


After several weeks at the d’Urbervilles’, Tess goes to
         the market. Tess has not frequented this market very often, but
         realizes that she likes it and plans to make future returns. Several
         months later, she goes to the market and discovers that her visit
         has coincided with a local fair. That evening, she waits for some
         friends to walk her home and declines Alec’s offer to take her himself.
         When her friends are ready to leave, Tess finds that some of them
         are drunk, and they express their irritation that she has Alec’s
         attention all to herself. The scene grows unpleasant. Suddenly Alec
         arrives on his horse, and Tess finally agrees to let him carry her
         away.
      


Summary: Chapter XI


Alec lets the horse wander off the path and deep into
         the woods, where he tries to convince Tess to take him as a lover.
         Tess is reticent, and Alec realizes that they have become lost in
         the fog. He gives Tess his coat and goes to look for a landmark.
         Still trying to win her favor as a lover, he tells Tess that he
         has bought her father a new horse. When he returns, Tess is asleep,
         and Alec uses the opportunity to take advantage of her sexually.
      


Analysis: Chapters VIII–XI


These chapters mark the second half of Phase the First,
         which is subtitled “The Maiden,” and establishes several of the
         major characters. Structurally, the main plot follows a linear progression, depicting
         the direct progress of Tess’s life from the time her father learns
         of their noble heritage to her falling prey to Alec d’Urberville’s
         advances. This event is truly a catastrophe for her, because in Victorian
         England any kind of sexual encounter would earn a young woman moral
         rebuke and social condemnation, regardless of how the man involved
         conducted himself. In a way, Tess’s fall can be seen as a direct
         result of her father’s discovery of their noble descent. Tess is
         sent to take advantage of the familial connection, but instead, Alec
         takes advantage of her.
      


	The plot hinges on a great many unfortunate coincidences, including
         Simon Stokes’s fortuitous decision to call himself “d’Urberville,”
         the accidental death of old Prince, and Tess’s bad luck in being
         held up with her drunken friends after the fair. Throughout the
         novel, many events actually hinge on improbable coincidences. Hardy
         uses this technique to convey the sense that the universe itself,
         in the guise of fate, opposes Tess and foreordains her tragedy. Some
         critics, however, have accused these coincidences of straining the
         bounds of credulity, making the novel less believable.
      


	With the plot mechanics so neatly worked out, Hardy is
         able to spend a great deal of time creating his world; indeed, one
         of the novel’s strongest characteristics is its evocation of landscape
         and scenery. The Vale of Blackmoor, where the novel is set, is presented as
         a kind of lovely rustic ideal, where the atmosphere “is so tinged with
         azure that what artists call the middle distance partakes also of that
         hue, while the horizon beyond is of the deepest ultramarine.” It is
         a place also where the weather and atmosphere tend to adapt to the
         action of the story, especially when the confusing, disorienting, eerie
         shrouds of mist cloak the forest on the night of Tess’s fall.
      


	The imagery of mist and shadows mirrors Tess’s inner
         landscape, reflecting her own confusion and insecurity. This setting
         also reflects the mystery within which Hardy cloaks what actually
         happens to Tess that night. Hardy never reveals the specific details
         that would enable us to decide for ourselves whether Tess is a willing
         participant or a victim of rape. Hardy’s narrator does not seem
         to care about this distinction: the narrator describes Alec’s actions
         as ruthless, unjust, and coarse, whatever the details, but he does
         not judge Tess at all. This portrayal of Tess’s fall may have struck
         Hardy’s original readers as scandalous, since Victorian society
         would have tended toward the opposite perspective, judging the woman
         more harshly than the man, regardless of the circumstances. But
         the narrator avoids commenting on Tess’s behavior by remarking that
         her disgrace is simply meant to be—it is fated, and is part of the
         way of the world. If Tess’s misfortune is truly predestined, she
         is not responsible for it, and she cannot really be judged as good
         or bad. This conundrum is typical of Hardy—he makes us care deeply
         about Tess, inviting us to think carefully about the morality and
         practical wisdom of her decisions, and then shocks us by pronouncing
         sagely that all of these moral considerations are irrelevant. Even
         when Tess tries hardest to be good, her bad luck conspires to get
         her into trouble, as when her virtuous unwillingness to partake
         in the festivities makes her more susceptible to Alec’s depredations.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Phase the Second: Maiden No More, Chapters XII–XV 


Summary: Chapter XII


After a few weeks of confused dalliance with Alec, Tess
         realizes she feels no love for him, and decides to flee from the
         d’Urberville mansion to her home during the early morning hours.
         Alec discovers her on the road, questions her early departure, and
         tries to convince her to return with him. When she refuses, he offers
         to drive her the rest of the way home, but she refuses even this
         offer. Alec tells Tess to let him know should she ever need help.
      


	Tess continues on her way home, randomly passing by a
         sign painter who is busy painting Bible passages onto random walls
         and gates throughout the countryside. He interrupts his conversation with
         Tess to paint a sign, which says “
THY DAMNATION SLUMBERETH
            NOT.
” These words resound in Tess’s mind, and she asks the
         painter if he believes the words he paints. He answers affirmatively.
         She tries to ask him for advice about her plight, but he tells her to
         go see a clergyman at a nearby church. She continues home, where
         her mother is surprised to see her. Her mother is frustrated with
         her for refusing to marry Alec, but she softens when Tess reminds
         her mother that she never warned Tess of the danger she faced.
      


Summary: Chapter XIII


Some of Tess’s friends come to visit, and in their high-spirited
         company Tess feels cheered. But in the morning she lapses back into
         her depression: to her, the future seems endless and bleak. She
         tries to attend church but hears the crowd whispering about her.
         Shaken, she falls into the habit of only going out after dark.
      


Summary: Chapter XIV


The following August, Tess decides the time has come to
         stop pitying herself, and she helps her village with the harvest.
         Her baby boy, conceived with Alec, falls ill, and Tess becomes worried
         that he will die without a proper christening. She decides to christen
         him herself and names him Sorrow. When he dies the following morning,
         Tess asks the parson if her christening was sufficient to earn her
         baby a Christian burial. Moved, the parson replies that though he
         cannot bury the child himself, Tess may do so. That night Tess lays
         Sorrow to rest in a corner of the churchyard, and makes a little
         cross for his grave.
      


Summary: Chapter XV


Tess realizes she can never be happy in Marlott and longs
         to begin a new life in a place where her past is unknown. The next
         year, the chance arises for Tess to become a milkmaid at the Talbothays Dairy.
         She seizes the opportunity, in part drawn by the fact that the dairy
         lies near the ancestral estate of the d’Urbervilles and spurred on
         by “the invincible instinct towards self-delight.”
      


Analysis: Chapters XII–XV


Phase the Second, subtitled “Maiden No More,” lays out
         the consequences of Tess’s fall in Phase the First. Tess flees Trantridge,
         pledging violence to Alec in an uncharacteristic manner, which proves that
         she does not remain complicit with fate and instead promises to be
         proactive in changing it. At home, she incurs her mother’s disappointment,
         fueling the need to fulfill her familial obligations. Later, she
         bears her doomed son Sorrow and buries him, against the precepts
         of the church and proper society. She is miserably unhappy throughout
         this period, but her unhappiness seems to stem at least as much
         from her fall from the grace of society and from her own troubled
         conscience as from her child’s birth and death, which are treated
         almost tangentially. Tess is sad when he dies, but she seems just
         as upset when villagers whisper about her in church—she even begins
         shunning daylight to avoid prying eyes. Tess’s early one-sidedness
         gives way to an identity crisis in which she is torn apart by her hatred
         of Alec, her guilt toward her family, her shame within society, and
         her disappointment in herself.
      


	However we view Tess’s struggle with what has happened
         to her, we are likely to consider her an innocent victim and to
         be sufficiently impressed with her character that we react with
         outrage to her unhappy fate. As she asks her mother, “How could
         I be expected to know? I was a child when I left this house four
         months ago. Why didn’t you tell me there was danger in men-folk?
         Why didn’t you warn me?” Tess sees herself as a victim of her own
         ignorance. She can claim that she did not know the dangers a man
         such as Alec d’Urberville posed and that it is not fair that she
         is made to suffer for succumbing to an unknown danger. When Tess
         refuses to marry Alec despite the social advantage the match would
         give her, and refuses his offers of help because she does not sincerely
         love him, we see her as more than an unwitting victim: her integrity
         and courage make her heroic.
      


	Phase the Second is primarily a transitional period,
         taking Tess from the scene of her disgrace to the promise of a new
         life at Talbothays. But it also begins to crystallize some important
         themes in the novel. We see in the previous section that Tess is
         fated to tragedy. In this section, we learn about the human instinct
         that leads Tess to oppose her fate, “the invincible instinct towards
         self-delight.” Tess’s healthy desire simply to be happy is perhaps
         the source of her great courage and moral strength. Additionally,
         the novel’s exploration of nobility, which begins with Mr. Durbeyfield’s
         discovery of his aristocratic heritage, is developed further here.
         In the previous section, the upper-class Alec trifles shamelessly
         with the lower-class Tess. With Tess’s moral integrity shown to
         its fullest extent, we begin to see Tess as truly noble through
         her goodness and her determination. Of course, the irony is that
         Tess is actually the real possessor of the d’Urberville name, while
         Alec is simply an imposter, the amoral son of a merchant and, hence,
         a commoner.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Phase the Third: The Rally, Chapters XVI–XIX


Summary: Chapter XVI


In good spirits, Tess sets out to begin work at the Talbothays
         Dairy, located in the Valley of the Great Dairies. On her way, the
         new scenery enchants her as she travels through the mists of Blackmoor.
         The beautiful day and the beautiful landscape put Tess in an optimistic mood.
         She passes the burial ground of her ancient ancestors, but decides
         to keep going.
      


Summary: Chapter XVII


Tess finally arrives at the Talbothays Dairy. Richard
         Crick, the master dairyman, treats her kindly and offers to let
         her rest, but she prefers to begin work immediately. She quickly
         fits in and feels very much at home. One of the men at the dairy
         looks familiar to her, and she recognizes him as the highbrow man
         whom she noticed back at the May Day village dance in Marlott. That
         evening, Tess overhears the dairymaids talking about him and learns
         that he is Angel Clare, the son of a well-respected Wessex clergyman.
         Angel’s two brothers have also joined the church, but Angel himself
         prefers a life in agriculture and, thus, has come to the dairy to
         learn about its work. There is much talk about Angel among the other
         dairymaids, and many of them seem to have a crush on him.
      


Summary: Chapter XVIII


The narrator shifts away from Tess’s point of view to
         tell us Angel’s background story. Angel is the most gifted of the
         three brothers, but, because his father looked upon a university
         education solely as preparation for a clerical life, Angel decided
         not to go to Cambridge. He has doubts about the doctrines of the
         church and feels that it would be dishonest to join the clergy.
         He has spent time in London in an attempt to find a business profession
         and has been involved with an older woman. Finally, he decided that
         the life of the soil would enable him to preserve his intellectual
         liberty outside the stifling conditions of city life. Now twenty-six
         years old, he learns firsthand about farming by visiting sites devoted
         to the subject. He is gentlemanly and thoughtful and is treated
         as a superior by most of the workers at the dairy. Angel acts aloof
         and a bit shy at first, but he soon befriends the other workers
         and spends more time with them. He swiftly finds himself drawn to
         Tess’s beauty and thinks that she seems uncommonly virginal and
         pure. Tess, however, tries to stay away from him out of shame for
         her secret, woeful past.
      


Summary: Chapter XIX


After a few weeks, Tess discovers that Angel is breaking
         the dairy’s rules by lining up her favorite cows for her. She tells
         him of her discovery and, later that night, walks alone in the garden,
         listening to him strum his harp. He comes down to join her, and
         they have an intimate conversation. Angel finds it compelling that
         a girl as young and beautiful as Tess would have such a dark view
         of life. She deflects his questions about her with general comments
         about life, and then she inquires about him. Tess is interested
         in Angel’s education and learning, and she also wonders why such
         a well-bred and well-schooled man would choose to become a farmer
         instead of joining his father and brothers in the clergy. He offers
         to tutor her, but she refuses, claiming that the answers she seeks
         are not to be found in books.
      


Analysis: Chapters XVI–XIX


These chapters portray the beginning of the happiest period
         of Tess’s life. The narrator indicates that she “had never been
         in her recent life so happy as she was now, possibly never would
         be so happy again.” This turn in tone is matched by a healthier
         landscape, and she is perfectly suited to her surroundings. Tess’s
         simple, rustic beauty is matched by the country paradise of the
         dairy, and the ripening weather of summer matches the blossoming
         romance between Tess and Angel.
      


	Tess is in control of her emotions and, it appears, of
         her life. The setting allows her to deal with her past melancholy,
         and these chapters serve as development, on a number of levels,
         of Tess’s newfound success: her return to normal life, her achievement
         as a worker, and her success as a more virtuous lover. This perspective
         is mirrored by the background of Talbothays, a quiet, slow-paced
         paradise where Tess can be calm and comfortable.
      


	Tess’s assertion that the answers she seeks are not to
         be found in books indicates that she wants to learn directly from
         life experiences. Tess is ready to experience the world, and, of
         course, she has already made some mistakes as a result. Her assertion
         demonstrates that she wants to become knowledgeable and self-sufficient.
         In other words, she does not want to rely on anyone else. This independence
         contrasts with the way Tess’s mother used to consult the fortune-telling
         book for all her guidance. In the same way that Angel seeks to become
         independent from his family’s current legacy, Tess wants to become
         independent of hers.
      


	These chapters fully introduce Angel into the novel.
         A great deal of narrative and an entire chapter are devoted to summarizing
         his recent accomplishments and family background. Given that Angel is
         introduced immediately after the saga between Tess and the ruthless
         Alec d’Urberville, the contrasts between these two men emerge vividly
         in these chapters. For instance, Angel has soothing, elegant conversations
         with Tess and gives her classical, idealistic nicknames like “Artemis”
         and “Demeter.” Alec, on the other hand, mocks her with demeaning
         words and low-society nicknames like “coz.” Through this juxtaposition,
         Angel appears an angel and a savior to the troubled but coping Tess.
      




OceanofPDF.com













Chapters XX–XXIV


Summary: Chapter XX


As the months pass, Angel and Tess grow closer, and Tess
         finds herself in the happiest phase of her life. They wake up early,
         before the others, and feel as if they are the only people on Earth.
         Indeed, the dairy seems to be an Eden, where Angel is Adam and Tess
         is Eve. Tess is Angel’s “visionary essence of woman,” and he playfully
         nicknames her “Artemis” and “Demeter.” Tess does not understand these
         nicknames and simply tells him to call her Tess. They continue to
         enjoy the morning, as the summer fog slowly lifts and birds swoop
         and play in the misty air.
      


Summary: Chapter XXI


Life on the dairy begins to change. There is worry about
         the butter, which is not churning properly. Mrs. Crick jokes that
         this sort of thing happens only when someone on the farm falls in
         love. Indeed, there are two people who are in love, and the milkmaids
         often discuss Angel’s noticeable love for Tess and imagine what
         the future will hold for them. Tess does not want to marry, though,
         because she is still ashamed of her past. After some further churning,
         the butter begins to set and everyone’s fears melt away—except for
         Tess’s.
      


Summary: Chapter XXII


Early in the morning, the Cricks receive a letter from
         a customer who complains that the butter he has bought from them
         “had a twang,” or a sharp taste. Mr. Crick realizes that this taste
         must be the result of the cows eating from garlic weeds. The dairymaids
         go out to the pasture to search for these disastrous weeds. Tess
         feels faint, and Mr. Crick encourages Tess to take a moment to rest.
         Angel stops with her, and she makes a point of mentioning the virtues
         of two of her close milkmaid friends, Izz and Retty. Angel agrees
         that they are nice women and capable dairymaids, but indicates that
         he has no romantic interest in them.
      


Summary: Chapter XXIII


Two months after her arrival at the dairy, Tess sets out
         with her friends to attend the Mellstock Church. There has been
         a torrential downpour the day before, and the girls come to a long
         stretch of flooded road. Angel offers to carry them across, and
         they agree. All the girls notice that Angel takes the longest with
         Tess, and they each realize that he prefers her.
      


	Tess begins to avoid Angel, but she notices from afar
         his grace and self-discipline in the company of the girls who dote
         on him. One night, Marian, Izz, and Retty each confess to feeling
         love for Angel, and Tess feels guilty, since she too loves Angel
         but has already decided never to marry. She wonders if she is wrong
         to take so much of his time.
      


Summary: Chapter XXIV


Later that summer, Angel and Tess are milking cows, and
         Angel is overcome with his feeling for Tess. He embraces her, and
         she gives way to her feelings for a moment before trying to pull
         away. Angel tells Tess he loves her and is surprised to hear the
         words come out of his mouth. No one has noticed their encounter,
         and the two return to their milking, shaken.
      


Analysis: Chapters XX–XXIV


These chapters mark the end of Phase the Third, subtitled
         “The Rally,” which concerns Tess’s “invincible instinct toward self-delight”
         as she enjoys a happy period at the Talbothays Dairy and her new
         romance with Angel Clare. The harsh irony of Angel’s first impression
         of Tess, that she is “virginal,” is underplayed by Tess’s self-sacrificing
         virtue throughout these chapters—she even avoids him intentionally
         when she thinks her friends deserve him more. The plot of this phase
         is, like that of Phase the First, essentially linear: Tess meets
         Angel and their relationship grows closer until it becomes clear
         that he loves her.
      


	A new conflict arises in these chapters between Tess’s
         new love for Angel and her moral reservations about acting on that
         love. This conflict and indecisiveness on Tess’s part is mirrored
         by the new problems that surface at Talbothays Dairy concerning
         the quality of the butter. Certain agents have caused the butter
         to become tainted, affecting its taste and attractiveness. Tess
         feels a similar inner turmoil with the agents that have affected
         her, which leads her to think that her attractiveness may be tainted
         even though Angel expresses his love for her.
      


	With Tess’s virtue as uncompromisable as ever, her personal
         reservations about marrying Angel seem clearly designed to arouse both
         our sympathy and moral outrage. It seems ludicrous for poor Tess
         to have to refrain from acting on her passion. Surely any moral code
         that would force Tess to suffer for the rest of her life for a single error
         must be deeply flawed. This line of reasoning is Hardy’s argument,
         but still Tess seems to be fated to suffer, the victim of “the ill-judged
         execution of the well-judged plan of things.”
      


	As Angel and Alec are compared and contrasted in previous chapters,
         Tess is compared and contrasted with the other dairymaids in these
         chapters. Tess views herself as equal or subordinate to her friends
         Marian, Izz, and Retty, but Angel sees her as his sole, perfect
         mate. All of the dairymaids have crushes on Angel, but Angel is
         interested only in Tess. The final scene in the section—in which Tess
         and Angel are overcome by their love—is a wonderful conclusion to
         these chapters, which have focused on the growing attraction between
         them. The conclusion satisfies the natural progression of their
         love in a way that is surely meant to appease us. Tess is surprised
         by Angel’s confession, and a bit shaken by its implications. She
         is torn because she knows her dark past will stand in the way of her
         future with Angel, and even as their love continues to grow, these
         issues and problems do not show any signs of disappearing.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Phase the Fourth: The Consequence, 
         Chapters XXV–XXXI
      


Summary: Chapter XXV


Angel feels that he needs time to understand the nature
         of his relationship with Tess, so he decides to spend a few days
         away from the dairy visiting his family. At his father’s house in
         Emminster, he finds his parents breakfasting with his brothers:
         the Reverend Felix, a town curate, and the Reverend Cuthbert, a
         college dean at Cambridge. Angel’s family notices that his manners
         have worsened somewhat during his time with common farm folk, while
         Angel thinks that his brothers have become mentally limited and
         bogged down by their comfortable situations.
      


Summary: Chapter XXVI


After prayers that evening, Angel and his father discuss
         Angel’s marriage prospects. The Clares hope Angel will marry Mercy
         Chant, a pious neighbor girl, and they admonish their son about
         the importance of Christian piety in a wife. Angel contends that
         a wife who understands farm life would also be an asset, and he
         tells them about Tess, emphasizing her religious sincerity. The
         family agrees to meet her. Angel’s father also tells Angel that
         he has saved the money he would have needed for his college education,
         and, since Angel did not go to college, he is willing to give it
         to Angel to buy land. Before Angel leaves, his father tells him
         about his efforts to convert the local populace, and mentions his
         failed efforts to tame a young miscreant named Alec d’Urberville.
         Angel’s dislike for old families increases.
      


Summary: Chapter XXVII


Angel returns to the dairy, where he finds Tess just awakening
         from her afternoon nap. He takes her in his arms and asks her to
         marry him. Tess replies that she loves him but that she cannot marry.
         Angel replies that he will give her time to think it over, but she
         replies again that the marriage is impossible. Nevertheless, in
         the coming days Angel continues to try to persuade her, and Tess
         quickly realizes that she loves him too strongly to keep up her
         refusal.
      


Summary: Chapter XXVIII


In the early fall, Angel again asks Tess to marry him.
         Tess hesitates, saying that one of the other girls might make a
         better wife than she. Tess still feels that she cannot marry Angel
         because of the implications of her past indiscretions. But Angel
         still believes that Tess is objecting only because of her low social
         status, and he thinks that she will accept soon enough. Tess believes
         that she must tell Angel about her lineage and her dark past, but
         hesitates and resolves to tell him later.
      


Summary: Chapter XXIX


The farm floods with gossip about a failed marriage. A
         man named Jack Dollop married a widow, expecting to partake of her
         substantial dowry, only to discover that her financial stability
         and income vanishes as a result of the marriage. Most people at
         the dairy think the widow was wrong to deceive Jack Dollop of this
         fact and that she should have been completely truthful with him
         before marrying. This widespread opinion makes Tess nervous again
         about her past. She wonders whether she should reveal this past
         to Angel.
      


Summary: Chapter XXX


As they are taking care of some chores, Angel mentions
         offhandedly to Tess that they are near the ancestral territory of
         the ancient d’Urbervilles. She takes the opportunity to tell Angel
         that she descends from the d’Urbervilles, and he is pleased, realizing
         that her descent from noble blood will make her a better match in
         the eyes of his family. At last Tess agrees to marry him, and she
         begins to weep. Tess asks if she may write to her mother, and when
         Angel learns she is from Marlott, he remembers where he has seen
         her before—on May Day, when they did not dance.
      


Summary: Chapter XXXI


When Mrs. Durbeyfield receives Tess’s letter, she immediately
         writes back advising her daughter not to tell Angel about her past.
         Tess luxuriates throughout October, and, when Angel asks her to
         finalize the date of their wedding, she again appears reticent,
         saying she is reluctant to change things. When Angel announces their
         engagement to Mr. Crick in front of the dairymaids, Tess is impressed
         by their joyous reaction. She feels that she can finally express
         her happiness, but she soon feels unworthy of Angel. Tess decides
         that she will finally tell him about her past.
      


Analysis: Chapters XXV–XXXI


It is obvious that Angel has become very different from
         the rest of his family as a result of the time he has spent farming.
         His brothers have excelled in the ministry and in intellectual circles,
         and Angel feels that he has nothing in common with them anymore.
         Overall, Angel’s family is somewhat snobbish. They are quite respectable
         in their religious observances, but they seem to lack the ability
         to feel and to understand people on an emotional level.
      


	Tess represents many bad things to Mrs. Clare. Angel’s
         mother sees in Tess the beginning of the fall of the great Victorian
         era of opulence and high society. She does not accept Tess as a
         suitable daughter-in-law because she believes that Tess will bring
         down the status of the family. The Clares hope that Angel will find
         a suitable bride, meaning a highborn, well-bred woman of society.
         For them, marriage is not about love, but rather social, financial,
         and religious prosperity. The difference between Angel and the rest
         of the Clares lies in his progressiveness. He has rejected the clerical
         profession because he does not believe in serving the church but,
         rather, working on land and supplying food.
      


	Tess’s denial of Angel shows that she is concerned about
         what her past may mean to her future. To Angel, her denial seems
         to signify that Tess is even more virtuous than he thought. By denying
         him not because of a lack of love but, he believes, because of her
         lack of social status, her convictions seem almost too pure to him.
         In fact, Angel believes that both his family and Tess suffer from
         holding onto the belief in a privileged class.
      


	The story of Jack Dollop’s wife makes Tess feel nervous
         again about her predicament. As Angel persistently seeks Tess’s
         acceptance of marriage, Tess continually seeks an opportunity to
         share her past with him. She understands that a woman’s virginity
         is regarded as supremely important by most of her society, and that Angel
         does not see her as anything but completely pure. Telling Angel
         of her family’s d’Urberville lineage is difficult enough for her. He
         takes the news well, but she does not gain confidence that her other,
         more shameful revelation will be met with the same excitement.
      


	Mrs. Durbeyfield advises Tess against the ethically sound
         choice of telling Angel about her past. Mrs. Durbeyfield’s advice,
         however, stems from her love and concern for Tess. Like any mother,
         Mrs. Durbeyfield does not want anything to interfere with her daughter making
         an advantageous marriage. Tess is relieved to receive this advice
         from her mother, but she knows deep down that she cannot follow
         it. Although Tess’s mother can advise an unethical course of action
         in order to preserve her daughter’s happiness, Tess’s conscience
         is too strong to live with the secret, and she must free herself of
         the burden so that she can live comfortably and morally.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Chapters XXXII–XXXIV


Summary: Chapter XXXII


Tess agrees to leave the dairy with Angel around Christmas,
         and their wedding date is set for December 
31
.
         Angel hopes to spend that time visiting a flour mill and staying
         in a home that belonged to the d’Urbervilles. Angel buys Tess clothes
         for their wedding and, to her relief, quietly takes out a marriage
         license rather than publicizing his intent to marry Tess.
      


Summary: Chapter XXXIII


While out shopping, Angel and Tess encounter a man from
         Alec d’Urberville’s village, who disparages Tess and denies her
         virginity. Angel strikes the man, but when the man apologizes, Angel
         gives him some money. Tess is wracked with guilt, and that night
         she writes a confession and slips it under Angel’s door. Strangely,
         in the morning, Angel’s behavior toward her has not changed, and
         he does not mention the letter. Tess ascertains that it slipped
         under the carpet and that Angel never saw it. On the morning of
         the wedding, Tess again tries to tell Angel about her past, but
         he cuts her off, saying that there will be time for such revelations
         after they are married. The dairyman and his wife accompany them
         to church, and they are married. As they are leaving for the ceremony,
         however, a rooster crows in the mid-afternoon.
      


Summary: Chapter XXXIV


After the wedding, the couple travels to the old d’Urberville
         mansion, where they will have a few days to themselves before the farmer
         returns. Tess receives a package from Angel’s father, containing
         some jewelry that Angel’s godmother bequeathed to his future wife
         some years ago. The newlyweds enjoy a happy moment, which is broken
         when the man arrives from the dairy with their luggage, bringing
         bad news about Tess’s friends. After the wedding, Retty attempted
         suicide and Marian became an alcoholic.
      


	After this disclosure, Angel asks Tess for forgiveness,
         telling her of his past indiscretion with an older woman in London.
         Tess says that she, too, has a confession and tells him of her past
         with Alec.
      


Analysis: Chapters XXXII–XXXIV


As these chapters mark the end of Phase the Fourth, “The
         Consequence,” they permit the phase to fit well with the seesaw
         scheme of the novel up to this point. 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles
 alternates
         sections that build up to a climax with sections that detail the
         result of the climax. Phase the First builds steadily toward Tess’s
         fall from grace, and Phase the Second lays out the consequences
         for Tess—her child and her loss of reputation. Phase the Third builds
         inexorably toward Tess’s union with Angel, while Phase the Fourth
         brings us the consequences of their love: Angel and Tess marry,
         and she confesses her past. Aside from the repeated instances of
         supernatural effect and mystical ill omen, such as the cock crowing
         in the afternoon and the creaky old mansion, the real conflict in
         this section is again moral, between Tess’s desire to be happily
         loved by Angel and her conscious obligation to tell him about her
         past. Because Tess has such a strong instinct for self-delight,
         she is able to delay and resist her conscience through October.
         Since Tess has an even stronger sense of moral duty, however, she
         cannot resist it forever; the section ends as she begins her story,
         “murmuring the words without flinching, and with her eyelids drooping
         down.”
      


	The universe is still hostile to Tess, and fate still
         toys with her in the form of the accidental mishaps on which the
         plot turns. Had Angel received Tess’s note before they were married,
         the course of the story might have gone differently. But the letter
         happens to slip under the carpet, and another chance for Tess’s
         tragedy to be averted is lost. This fluke may seem like an unbelievable
         coincidence, except that the universe expresses its hostility toward
         Tess through the portentous mishaps that plague her throughout the novel.
         The cock crowing in the afternoon does not doom Tess to ill fortune,
         but simply announces her foreordained doom to the world.
      


	Indeed, Angel’s decision to seek work at Talbothays is
         one of the most improbable circumstances in the novel. Although
         we see Angel as a progressive, new-thinking young man, his decision
         to give up a university education and an esteemed position in the
         clergy seems almost too idealistic to be true. While we see Tess
         as the responsible, patient, and persistent character that she is,
         Angel may appear rather spoiled—the youngest son in a privileged
         family who is not satisfied with his status quo and seeks adventure
         in murkier waters. In a sense, Angel is much more childish and naïve
         than the extremely responsible Tess. Angel may be angelic not in
         his morality, but in the sense that he is cherubic and childlike,
         indicating his need to grow and develop a truer love for Tess.
      


	Talbothays Dairy is a kind of classless haven untroubled
         by social difference. Even Angel, the closest thing Talbothays has
         to an aristocrat, fits in quite seamlessly. Nevertheless, the themes
         of social prejudice and noble heritage continue to arise. Angel’s
         mother, who exhibits snobbery throughout the novel, wants Angel
         to marry a suitable girl—meaning highborn. Angel is pleased to discover
         Tess’s noble background in this section because he knows it will
         placate his mother, who will conclude that Tess must be worthwhile
         if she has such a remarkable pedigree. This situation can be interpreted
         in various ways. On the one hand, it is superficial and reprehensible
         of Mrs. Clare to place such a high stock in social class. On the
         other, Tess 
is
 nobly born, and she 
does
 possess
         all the stereotypical characteristics that are supposed to distinguish
         nobility, such as beauty, courage, and integrity.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Phase the Fifth: The Woman Pays, 
         Chapters XXXV–XXXIX 
      


Summary: Chapter XXXV


Angel is distraught by Tess’s confession. He begs her
         to deny it, but she cannot. He flees the house, and Tess follows
         after him. For hours, they walk the grounds of the mansion. Tess
         tells her husband that she will do anything he asks and even offers
         to drown herself. Angel orders her to go back to the house. When
         he returns, Tess is asleep. After an uncomfortable moment looking
         at the d’Urberville ladies’ portraits, Angel goes to sleep in a
         different room.
      


Summary: Chapter XXXVI


Three miserable days go by, during which Angel spends
         his time at the mill or with his studies. Tess wonders if they should
         get a divorce, but she learns that the law does not allow divorces.
         Finally, Tess offers to go home, and Angel tells her she should
         go.
      


Summary: Chapter XXXVII




Clare came close, and bent over her.
            “Dead, dead, dead!” he murmured.	
         


(See 
Important Quotations Explained
)
         




That night, Tess wakes up and discovers that Angel is
         sleepwalking. He stumbles into Tess’s room and seizes her in his
         arms. Moaning that his wife is dead, he carries her over a narrow
         bridge and into the churchyard, where he lays her in a coffin. Tess
         carefully leads Angel back into the house, and in the morning he
         shows no recollection of the event.
      


	The couple makes a brief stop at the dairy on their way
         to Marlott. They behave awkwardly together in public. Angel leaves
         Tess near her village, telling her that he will try to accept her
         past, but that she should not try to come to him until he comes
         for her.
      


Summary: Chapter XXXVIII


Tess returns home dolefully and confesses to her mother
         what has happened. Mrs. Durbeyfield calls her a fool, and Mr. Durbeyfield finds
         it hard to believe Tess is even married. Tess is miserable at home,
         and when a letter arrives from Angel informing Tess that he has
         begun looking for a farm in the north, Tess seizes the excuse to leave
         and tells her family that she is going to join her husband. She gives
         them half of the fifty pounds Angel gave her and leaves her home.
      


Summary: Chapter XXXIX


Three weeks after their marriage, Angel visits his parents
         and tells them he is traveling to Brazil and not taking Tess. His
         parents are alarmed and disappointed, but Angel tells them they
         will meet Tess in a year, when he returns.
      


	Angel’s parents surprise him by reading a biblical passage
         about how virtuous wives are loving, loyal, selfless, and “working.”
         Mrs. Clare applies the passage directly to Tess, demonstrating her
         wholehearted acceptance of Angel’s choice not to marry a fine lady,
         but Angel, overcome with emotion, leaves the room. Following him, Mrs.
         Clare guesses that Angel discovered something dishonorable in Tess’s
         past, but he vehemently denies it.
      


Analysis: Chapters XXXV–XXXIX


Atmosphere is a very important component in these chapters,
         and as Tess nears the culmination of her tragedy, the sense of mystical gloom
         intensifies. The old, abandoned, Gothic d’Urberville mansion is
         a perfect setting for the emotional change that takes place. The
         setting also mirrors Tess’s feelings of emptiness and coldness toward
         her family legacy. In exploiting the setting for dramatic and psychological
         effect, Hardy draws heavily on the conventions of Gothic literature,
         sometimes creating very unrealistic effects.
      


	In a similar vein, the scene in which Angel sleepwalks
         is Gothic almost to the point of being ridiculous. The scene represents
         the fact that, while Tess herself is still very much alive, Angel’s
         vision of her is dead. The woman he married does not seem to be
         the same woman now, and he cannot reconcile the difference. As Alec
         sexually violated Tess, Tess’s past has spiritually violated Angel.
         It seems inevitable that Angel’s idealized, pure vision of Tess
         must shatter and, given the importance he attaches to this vision,
         their marriage must shatter along with it. Angel’s reaction is a
         result of his childish decision to marry the Tess that he envisioned
         as opposed to Tess as she actually is.
      


	The scene becomes even harder to believe when Angel scoops
         up his wife, and—still asleep—carries her to her ancestral cemetery
         and places her in a coffin. Hardy may have included such a scene
         to please a Victorian readership that loved Gothic gloom and mystery. But
         the scene also attests to the hostility of fate toward Tess. Hardy means
         for us to accept Tess’s tragedy as foreordained, willed by the universe,
         and executed by powers beyond mortal control. By suggesting such
         a deterministic view of events, Hardy makes us look at the story
         in a new and unsettling way. For much of the novel, Hardy seems
         to criticize the archaic and outmoded morality that unfairly judges
         and condemns Tess, as well as the social hierarchies that allow
         aristocrats to exploit the lower classes and men to abuse women.
         But if Tess’s tragedy is foreordained, it may not be solely the fault
         of outdated public moral judgment.
      


	Angel thinks that Tess is somehow dead, and Tess herself
         actually wants to be dead. She loses her strength and tells Angel
         that she wishes to submit: “I will obey you, like your wretched
         slave, even if it is to lie down and die.” She never complains about
         his feelings, and she only criticizes and blames herself. As Angel
         carries her over the narrow bridge, she imagines both of them falling
         over the side to their deaths in each other’s arms. She wants to
         commit suicide but—as with her inability to tell Angel about her
         past—she cannot summon the courage. As they say good-bye, Tess is
         little more than a walking corpse. Indeed, it seems that Angel has
         killed her soul and her desire to live. It is apparent now that
         Tess can never escape the wrongs of the past, either socially or
         personally.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Chapters XL–XLIV


Summary: Chapter XL


Angel puts the jewelry in the bank and arranges to have
         some additional money sent to Tess, then travels to the Wellbridge
         Farm to finish some business there. He encounters Izz and impetuously
         invites her to go to Brazil with him. Izz agrees, and says that
         she loves him. He asks if she loves him more than Tess, and Izz
         replies that no one could love him as much as Tess did. Angel sadly
         takes Izz to her home and leaves for Brazil alone a few days later.
      


Summary: Chapter XLI


Tess finds sporadic work at different dairies and manages
         to conceal from her family that she is separated from her husband.
         When her money begins to run low, she is forced to dip into the
         money Angel left for her. Her parents write to her asking for money
         to help repair the cottage roof, and she sends them nearly everything
         she has. In the meantime, Angel is ill and struggling in Brazil
         as part of a desperate and failing community of British farmers.
         Even though she is short on money, Tess is too ashamed to ask the
         Clares for money.
      


	Tess has heard from Marian of a farm where she might
         find work, and although it is purportedly a difficult place in which
         to get by, Tess decides to travel there. She encounters the man
         from Alec d’Urberville’s village who accused her of promiscuity
         in front of Angel and is forced to run and hide from him. She feels
         as if Alec is hunting her.
      


	Continuing on her way, Tess stumbles upon a flock of
         pheasants, some of which have died and others that are in agony
         and pain. She suspects that hunters have shot them and will return
         to collect them. She feels an affinity for the birds in pain, and
         she instinctively breaks their necks to kill them and put them out
         of their misery. Afterward she compares her own plight with that
         of the pheasants and becomes angry at herself for thinking that
         she is the most miserable being on Earth.
      




“Poor darlings—to suppose myself the
            most miserable being on earth in the sight o’ such misery as yours!”
            she exclaimed, her tears running down as she killed the birds tenderly.
         


(See 
Important Quotations Explained
)
         




Summary: Chapter XLII


Tess takes to making herself ugly to protect herself from
         lustful men, and she cuts off her eyebrows and dresses in old, unattractive
         clothing. When Tess reaches the farm near the village of Flintcomb-Ash, Marian
         is curious about Angel, but Tess asks her not to inquire about him.
         The proprietress of the farm agrees to give Tess a job, and Tess
         sends her new address to her parents—though she does not acknowledge
         her marital or financial difficulties.
      


Summary: Chapter XLIII


Tess and Marian work digging up rutabagas in rocky ground.
         After a time, Izz Huett joins them. They are sent to work in the
         barn in the winter, and Tess meets the man who owns the farm—it
         is the same man from Alec d’Urberville’s village. He accuses her
         of being a poor worker, and she offers to work harder to compensate.
         Marian tells Tess that Angel invited Izz to travel with him to Brazil,
         and Tess at first feels as though she should write to him. Before
         long, however, she is overcome by doubt as to whether she really
         should.
      


Summary: Chapter XLIV


Tess decides to visit Angel’s family to discover what
         has happened to him and begins the long walk to the vicarage. She
         takes off her boots and hides them, planning to put them on again
         for the walk home. She overhears Angel’s brothers discussing Angel’s
         unfortunate marriage, and when they find her boots, they assume
         they belong to a peasant. Tess is ashamed and unhappy and decides
         not to meet Angel’s family after all. She begins the walk home,
         but she stops before a barn in which a passionate sermon is being
         delivered. She looks inside, and sees none other than Alec d’Urberville.
      


Analysis: Chapters XL–XLIV


Phase the Fifth, “The Woman Pays,” moves the tragic forces
         of the novel into high gear. When Angel leaves Tess, Tess is too
         proud to ask his family for help. But since she is also too dutiful
         toward her own family not to give them half the money he leaves
         her, her life begins to unravel completely. In other words, because
         she remains loyal to her sense of self 
and
 to other
         people, the situation in which Alec and Angel have placed her becomes
         impossible. The happiness she knows at Talbothays is completely
         shattered, and the contrast between jovial Talbothays and cold,
         hard Flintcomb-Ash hammers home Tess’s new life situation.
      


	In these chapters, Angel visits or runs into several
         family members and acquaintances who all try to tell him that Tess
         is a noble and loyal wife. When Angel visits his parents, it seems
         that Angel is more conventional than his parents in his definition
         of wifely virtue. The Bible passage that they read says nothing
         about premarital celibacy, but Angel seems to believe that chastity
         is an absolute virtue. While the Bible passage seems to describe
         Tess accurately, Angel cannot recognize her in it. He is blinded
         by his failure to accept Tess for who she really is. In this section,
         Angel proves himself more judgmental and inflexible than his mother,
         who turns out to be surprisingly adaptable. When Angel runs into
         Izz, she freely admits that no one could love him more than Tess,
         even though she too loves him. But Angel is unable to register these
         testaments to Tess’s worth, as he is still sleepwalking through
         life. He takes Tess’s transgression as a personal attack on him,
         which makes him unable to see her clearly. Even his family, who
         has been preoccupied with social distinctions, can actually accept
         Tess as she is—and they have not even met her.
      


	In addition, the decline of Tess’s physical appearance
         also indicates the sharp downturn in her life: she even cuts off
         her eyebrows to make herself unattractive to lustful young men.
         Tess’s reencounter with Alec d’Urberville is staged at the moment
         of her greatest weakness, as she has gone to ask for help from Angel’s
         parents. While “[grieving] for the beloved man whose unyielding
         judgment has caused her all these later sorrows,” she encounters
         the man who condemned her to that judgment, and the stage is set
         for Tess’s hardest challenge: to avoid the temptation to give in
         to Alec d’Urberville again in order to help herself and her family.
         Hardy has arranged his story so that Tess’s most admirable strengths,
         such as her loyalty to her family, tempt her toward her worst mistake.
         Fate manifests itself again in Tess’s visit to Angel’s family, in
         which her tragic course is once again influenced by improbable circumstance.
         Had Tess not happened to overhear Felix and Cuthbert criticizing
         Angel’s marriage, she might not leave when she does and see Alec
         at such a despairing and vulnerable moment. Fate impinges upon Tess’s
         life at every turn. Often, when faced with a difficult decision,
         the choice she selects makes her situation much worse. But her bad
         decision-making is not due to a lack of thought and consideration,
         since Tess spends entire chapters deliberating about which course
         to take. Instead, the consequences of her actions seem predestined.
         Even in her spontaneous choices, like her impromptu decision to
         leave the church, there is no way Tess could possibly know that
         she would then, in turn, run into Alec. Moreover, Alec’s conversion
         from sexual predator to religious preacher appears the most improbable event
         of all. For this circumstance, Angel’s own father Reverend Clare
         is responsible, adding the final surprising touch.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Phase the Sixth: The Convert, Chapters XLV–XLVIII


Summary: Chapter XLV


Tess has not seen Alec since she left his family’s service.
         When she sees and hears him testifying to his religious conversion,
         she is struck dumb with a sudden terror. She withdraws, but Alec
         sees her and runs after her, claiming he has to save her soul. He
         says he has found God through the intercession of the Reverend Clare.
         Tess, angry and disbelieving, excoriates people like Alec, who ruin
         other people’s lives and then try to secure a place in heaven by
         suddenly converting. She then asserts that she cannot put her faith
         in Alec’s religion when a better man than he—meaning Angel—does
         not believe in that religion. Alec expresses fear of Tess, and as
         they come to a stone monument called the Cross-in-Hand, he asks
         Tess to swear that she will never tempt him again. She agrees and
         Alec leaves, reading a letter from Reverend Clare to calm himself.
         Tess asks a shepherd what the Cross-in-Hand signifies, and she learns
         that it is an object of ill omen.
      


Summary: Chapter XLVI


The omen proves correct a few days later, when Alec approaches Tess
         in the fields and asks her to marry him. He proposes that they go
         to Africa to be missionaries. Tess replies that she is already married,
         and she asks the distraught Alec to leave. She begins another letter
         to Angel but is unable to finish it.
      


	At Candlemas, Alec again approaches Tess. This time,
         he asks her to pray for him. Tess replies that she cannot pray,
         and she recites Angel’s reasons for doubting the validity of church
         doctrine. Alec appears shaken, and Tess asserts that she has a religion
         but no belief in the supernatural. Alec says that he has missed
         an opportunity to preach in order to see her, and he says that he
         is bothered by the fact that he has no right to help or protect
         her, while the man who does have that right has chosen to abandon
         her. Tess asks him to leave before their conversation can taint
         her husband’s honor.
      


Summary: Chapter XLVII


In early spring, Tess has been assigned a stint of difficult
         work as a thresher on the farm. Alec appears again, saying that
         he is no longer a preacher and beseeching Tess to come away with
         him. He says his love for her has strengthened, and he is upset
         that her husband neglects her. Tess slaps his face with a leather
         glove. He becomes angry, but calms himself, asserting his desire
         to be her master and telling her that he is her true husband. He
         says he will be back in the afternoon to collect her.
      


Summary: Chapter XLVIII


Alec comes back that afternoon as he promised. He walks
         Tess home and asks her to trust him to take care of both Tess and
         her family. Tess again refuses his offers, and that night she writes
         a letter to Angel, finally confessing her loyalty and her love and
         asking for his help against the temptation presented by Alec.
      


Analysis: Chapters XLV–XLVIII


Though Alec d’Urberville seems at first to have undergone
         a remarkable transformation from a rake into a pious and religious
         man, he discards this posture so effortlessly and quickly that it
         seems to have been a superfluous charade—Alec’s attempts to contain
         his desire for Tess seem weak at best. Indeed, we may wonder why
         Hardy chooses to reintroduce Alec as a convert at this point in
         the novel, given that he seems to be very much the same man as before.
         One effect of this choice is to heighten dramatically the bitter
         irony of Tess’s predicament. Tess continues to suffer as a social
         outcast because of a disgrace that is much more Alec’s fault than
         hers, yet the hypocritical Alec has the luxury to repent and even
         win acceptance as a preacher. Tess’s plight as a woman thus appears
         incredibly unjust, reinforcing the message given in the subtitle
         of this section of the novel: “The Woman Pays.”
      


	Alec’s reintroduction into the novel comes at Tess’s
         lowest moment, but his new pitch still does not work on her. She
         has not seen Alec for a long time, but she has clearly thought about
         him and what he did to her. Tess is observant and distrusting of
         Alec, and she views his conversion as a plot to win her back. The
         converted Alec appears to her as a wolf in sheep’s clothing, intending
         to prey on her, or like a devil in disguise, come to tempt her a
         final time. Indeed, we might well view the relationship between
         Tess and Alec as an allegory of good struggling with the temptation
         offered by evil.
      


	Alec continues to tempt Tess with money and security,
         the two things that would help her family the most, and in doing
         so he tests her ability to resist evil. His promise of financial
         security is attractive, but not quite attractive enough. Tess has
         learned her lesson about risking herself and her happiness for the
         sake of money. She is a much stronger woman now and is more knowledgeable
         about conniving men, especially Alec. This strength deters Alec
         and makes him feel weaker and more vulnerable because his plot is
         not working. Alec is successful, however, in making Tess doubt herself.
      


	As Tess struggles with Alec’s temptation, her need for
         Angel becomes more and more desperate. If Angel were to return to
         her and do his duty as her husband, her problems would greatly diminish.
         She writes to Angel and pleads that he not judge her on her irretrievable
         past. Ironically, Alec asks Tess to do the same thing for him, claiming
         that he has changed, that Tess tempted him, and that he must not
         be judged based on his past mistakes. Tess’s situation thus makes
         her very vulnerable to Alec’s persuasions. She is obviously heartbroken
         and needs to be loved more than ever. She is also distraught by
         her family’s ever-worsening financial situation. Alec’s reasoning
         seems more valid to Tess than it has in the past. In a way, Tess
         and Alec are similar in that they have both fallen and ask for forgiveness
         for their indiscretions.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Chapters XLIX–LII 


Summary: Chapter XLIX


Tess’s letter goes to Angel’s parents, who forward it
         to Angel in Brazil. Mrs. Clare reproaches her husband for keeping
         Angel from attending Cambridge, whereas Reverend Clare feels justified
         in his decision but regrets the misery his son has endured. For
         his part, Angel is ready to abandon his idea of farming in Brazil.
         The suffering he has endured there has softened his feelings toward
         Tess, and when a more experienced man tells him he was wrong to
         leave her, Angel feels a powerful regret. When the man dies a few
         days later, his words assume even more power in Angel’s mind. Back
         at the farm, Tess encounters her sister, Liza-Lu, who comes with
         sorrowful news: Tess’s mother is dying, and her father is also very
         ill and can do no work. Tess tells Izz and Marian what has happened
         and leaves for home the next morning.
      


Summary: Chapter L


Upon her arrival, Tess does what she can to make her mother
         comfortable and then begins working in the garden and on the family’s land.
         One night, she looks over and sees Alec working next to her. He
         again offers to help Tess and her family. She is sorely tempted
         but declines again. Enraged, Alec leaves.
      


	On the way home, Tess’s sister tells her that their father
         has died, which means that Tess’s family will lose their house.
         John Durbeyfield was the last person guaranteed a place in the terms
         of the lease, and the tenant farmer who owns the house wants to
         use it for his own workers.
      


Summary: Chapter LI


Tess prepares to move her family to a set of rooms in
         Kingsbere. Alec arrives and tells Tess the legend of the ghostly
         d’Urberville Coach—the message of which is that the sound of an
         invisible coach is a bad omen. Alec tries to persuade Tess to move
         her family to his family’s garden home, allow him to send her brothers
         and sisters to school, and have Tess’s mother tend the fowls. Tess
         is again sorely tempted, but she once more declines Alec’s offer,
         and he rides away. As he leaves, Tess admits to herself that Angel
         has treated her badly, and she writes him a letter saying she will
         do all she can to forget him, since she will never be able to forgive
         him. Joan asks what Alec said to her, but Tess refuses to divulge
         the story, saying she will tell her mother when they are in their
         rooms at Kingsbere.
      


Summary: Chapter LII




“The little finger of the sham d’Urberville
            can do more for you than the whole dynasty of the real underneath.
            . . . Now command me. What shall I do?”
         


(See 
Important Quotations Explained
)
         




The next day, Tess and her family begin their journey.
         On the way, they meet Marian and Izz, who are moving on to new work
         at a new farm. When they reach Kingsbere, they learn that Joan’s
         letter was late, and the rooms have already been rented. They cannot
         find more lodging and end up sleeping in the churchyard, in a plot
         called d’Urberville Aisle. Tess finds Alec lying on a tomb, and
         he tells her he can do more for her than all her noble ancestors.
         Tess tells him to leave, and angrily he does, promising that Tess
         will learn to be civil. Tess leans down toward the funeral vault
         and asks why she is still alive. Marian and Izz do their part for
         their friend by writing a note to Angel asking him to go back to
         Tess.
      


Analysis


Phase the Sixth tells the story of Tess’s struggle to
         remain free from Alec despite her family’s increasingly desperate
         plight, which Alec has the power to alleviate if Tess agrees to
         love him. Though Alec overtly plays the part of a villain in this
         section, the real conflict is within Tess, as two of her deepest
         virtues, her integrity and her loyalty to her family, prompt her
         in opposite directions. Her integrity demands that she stay away
         from Alec, whom she does not love, but her duty to her family tempts
         her to go with him to save her mother and her siblings. Integrity
         wins out throughout the section, but we get the sense that it is
         only a matter of time before Tess is forced to submit. As a result,
         the story in this section and part of the next is propelled along
         by a kind of race: Angel needs to forgive Tess and return to her
         before she surrenders to Alec.
      


	In fact, Angel is in the process of changing as a result
         of his bad experiences in Brazil. He begins to alter his attitude
         toward Tess, slowly realizing that his way of thinking has been
         faulty. He undergoes an emotional and moral conversion that is much
         more real than Alec’s religious conversion a few chapters back.
         Angel is finally shedding his immaturity and growing to love Tess
         as a responsible adult. But the distance between Angel and Tess
         is still great, both physically and emotionally. Ironically, the
         distance may have led them closer together, as their loneliness
         and separation have shown Angel how much Tess means to him. Notably,
         Angel’s transformation comes when he is at a great distance from
         English society and its prevailing sentiments. Even though he remains
         the die-hard progressive of the Clares, the pressure of conforming
         to English propriety coupled with his troubled view of his marriage
         stifles Angel’s growth while in England.
      


	As Alec’s courtship of Tess increases in intensity, so
         too does the string of misfortunes that plague Tess and her family.
         With her options narrowing, Tess becomes more desperate in her desire
         to reconcile with Angel: “Come to me!” she pleads, “Come to me and save
         me from what threatens me!” Throughout, Alec is portrayed as a sinister
         and threatening figure even when supposedly in the grip of religious
         conflict—at one point, the narrator notes that his face blackens
         “with something that was not Christianity.” Even when he appears
         most in love with Tess, he still seems the same old Alec, thinly
         disguised, hoping to seduce Tess by doing a good turn for her.
      


	The supernatural, Gothic atmosphere of the old d’Urberville mansion
         reappears here at the d’Urberville Aisle in the churchyard. Here,
         Tess, a real d’Urberville, and Alec, an imposter, have one of their
         most solemn moments, as Alec asserts that he can do more for Tess
         than all her lofty dead ancestors. Tess begins to realize the futility
         of claiming such an aristocratic legacy, since her ancestors truly cannot
         help her at all. She begins to realize that Alec may be her only hope.
         In the yard, Alec’s legend of the d’Urberville Coach evokes the Gothic
         or supernatural yet again, providing an ill omen that foreshadows
         the deadly conclusion of their story.
      


OceanofPDF.com













Phase the Seventh: The Fulfillment, Chapters LIII–LIX 


Summary: Chapter LIII


Angel returns to his parents’ home, haggard and gaunt
         after his tribulations abroad. He reads Tess’s angry letter, and
         he worries that she will never forgive him. His mother haughtily
         declares that he should not worry about the opinions of a poor commoner,
         and Angel reveals to her Tess’s exalted lineage.
      


	Angel spends a few days at home regaining his strength.
         He writes a letter to Tess addressed to Marlott, and finally receives
         a reply from Tess’s mother informing him that they have left Marlott and
         that Tess is no longer with the family.
      


	After a short time spent waiting, Angel decides that
         he must not delay his reunion with Tess. He is encouraged in this
         feeling by the revelation that Tess has not used any of the money
         Angel left with his father. Angel realizes that Tess must have suffered
         great poverty while he was abroad, and he is overcome with pity
         and guilt. Angel’s parents finally guess the secret cause of their
         son’s estrangement from Tess, and find that the knowledge disposes
         them to feel more kindly toward their daughter-in-law. Just before
         Angel leaves, he receives the letter from Marian and Izz.
      


Summary: Chapter LIV


Angel sets out to find his wife, traveling through the
         farm at Flintcomb-Ash and through Marlott, where he learns of the
         death of Tess’s father. He finds the elaborate gravestone of John
         Durbeyfield, and when he learns that it is unpaid for, he settles
         the bill. When he meets Joan, he finds his mother-in-law uncomfortable
         and hesitant to tell him where Tess has gone. At last she takes
         pity on him and reveals that Tess is in Sandbourne.
      


Summary: Chapter LV


In Sandbourne, Angel is unable to find a Mrs. Clare or
         a Miss Durbeyfield, but he does learn that a d’Urberville is staying
         at an expensive lodging called The Herons.
      


	Angel hurries to The Herons and is impressed by its grandeur.
         He wonders how Tess could possibly afford it and thinks she must
         have sold his godmother’s diamonds. When Tess appears, she is dressed in
         expensive clothing. Angel pleads for her forgiveness and tells her that
         he has learned to accept her as she is and desperately wants her to
         come back to him. Brokenhearted, Tess replies that it is too late—thinking
         Angel would never come back for her, she gave in to Alec d’Urberville’s
         desires and is now under his protection. Tess leaves the room, and
         Angel rushes out of the house.
      


Summary: Chapter LVI


Mrs. Brooks, the landlady at The Herons, follows Tess
         upstairs and spies on her through the keyhole. She sees Tess holding
         her head in her hands, accusing Alec of deceiving her into thinking
         that Angel would never come back for her. Alec replies angrily,
         and Mrs. Brooks, startled, flees the scene. Back in her own room,
         she sees Tess go through the front gate, where she disappears onto
         the street. A short while later, Mrs. Brooks notices a dark red
         spot spreading on the ceiling. Terrified, Mrs. Brooks has a workman
         open the door of the d’Urberville rooms, where they discover Alec
         lying on the bed, stabbed to death. The landlady gives the alarm,
         and the news of Alec’s murder quickly spreads through the town.
      


Summary: Chapter LVII


Angel decides to leave on the first train. At his hotel,
         he finds a telegraph from his mother informing him that Cuthbert
         is going to marry Mercy Chant. Rather than waiting for the train,
         Angel decides to walk to the next station and meet it there. As
         he hikes out of the valley, he sees Tess running after him. He draws
         her off the main road, and she tells him that she has killed Alec.
         Tess says she had to kill Alec because he wronged Angel, but that
         she also had to return to Alec because Angel abandoned her. She
         begs Angel’s forgiveness, and he, thinking she is delirious, tells
         her he loves her. At last he realizes she is serious, though he
         still does not believe she has actually killed Alec. He agrees to
         protect her.
      


	They walk toward the interior of the country, waiting
         for the search for Tess to be called off so they can escape overseas.
         That evening, they find an old mansion and slip in through the windows. After
         a woman comes to close up the house, Angel opens the shutters, and
         they are alone for the night.
      


Summary: Chapter LVIII


Five days pass, and Angel and Tess slowly lapse back into
         their original love. They make little mention of their estrangement.
         One day the woman who airs the house discovers their hiding place,
         and they decide it is time to leave. After a day of travel, they
         arrive in the evening at Stonehenge, where Tess feels quite at home.
         As she rests by a pillar, she says that she feels as if there are
         no people in the world but them.
      


	Tess becomes distraught, and asks Angel to look after
         Liza-Lu when Tess is dead. She says she hopes Angel will marry Liza-Lu, then
         asks her husband if he believes they will meet again after death. Angel
         does not answer, and Tess, upset, drifts into sleep.
      


	At dawn, Angel realizes that they are surrounded. Men
         are moving in from all sides, and Angel realizes Tess must truly
         have killed Alec. Angel asks the men not to take Tess until she
         wakes. When she sees them, she feels strangely relieved. Tess is
         glad she will not live, because she feels unworthy of Angel’s love.
      


Summary: Chapter LIX




“Justice” was done, and the President
            of the Immortals (in Aeschylean phrase) had ended his sport with
            Tess.	
         


(See 
Important Quotations Explained
)
         




Sometime later, from a hillside outside Wintoncester,
         Angel and Liza-Lu watch as a black flag is raised above the tower.
         Tess has been put to death. Angel and Liza-Lu are motionless for
         a time, and then they join hands and go on.
      


Analysis: Chapters LIII–LIX


Phase the Seventh brings the novel to a tragic close through
         a shift in perspective. It begins in an aura of mystery, as Hardy
         chooses not to narrate the climax of Tess’s struggle—her return
         to the bed of Alec d’Urberville. The first part of this section
         is told instead from Angel’s perspective. When he arrives at The
         Herons, we have a gradual, sickening sense of what to expect, but
         Angel has no idea. He is too late because the race is over, and
         Tess’s loyalty to her family has overmastered her integrity. Torn
         apart, Tess now kills her lover in a murderous rage out of love
         for her husband. From that moment, the novel simply becomes a mechanical
         process leading to the inevitable conclusion—Tess’s death.
      


	As Angel returns with renewed loyalty and love for Tess,
         it becomes apparent that Alec has considerably broken down Tess’s loyalty
         to Angel. Tess recovers this love and loyalty when she sees Angel
         again, and she feels guilty about how far she has drifted. Her pride
         in poverty when Angel is away stands in direct contrast with her
         fancy clothing and luxurious lodging, which physically measures
         how far into temptation she has gone with Alec. Her shame and grief
         cause her violent side to explode, and she kills Alec. Whether intentionally
         or not, Tess has fulfilled Angel’s proclamation that they cannot
         be together as long as Alec is alive. The murder may appear justified
         to us at this point, after everything through which Alec has put
         Tess. But, though we may sympathize with Tess’s actions, we know
         that Tess must now flee and live the life of a hunted criminal.
      


	The short section narrated from the perspective of Mrs.
         Brooks is almost an exact double of the technique Hardy uses with
         Angel at the beginning of Phase the Seventh. Just as he excludes
         Tess’s return to Alec, he excludes her murder of Alec. Just as an
         unsuspecting third party shows us that she has gone back to him,
         another unsuspecting third party shows us that she has killed him.
         Tess’s mind has been at the center of the novel from its beginning,
         and practically everything that has happened has been shown solely
         in its relation to her. By shifting attention away from her so suddenly,
         Hardy creates the sense that Tess is already lost—though she is
         still alive, she has partially vanished into the gloom of her fate.
         At the end, despite the atmosphere of Gothic mystery and supernatural
         portent that infuses much of the novel, Hardy still manages to surprise
         us by setting the conclusion at Stonehenge, one of the most famous
         and mysterious monuments in the world.
      




OceanofPDF.com













Important Quotations Explained






1
.	“Don’t
               you really know, Durbeyfield, that you are the lineal representative
               of the ancient and knightly family of the d’Urbervilles, who derive
               their descent from Sir Pagan d’Urberville, that renowned knight
               who came from Normandy with William the Conqueror, as appears by Battle
               Abbey Roll?” “Never heard it before, sir!”
            




In this passage, from Chapter I, the
            local parson informs Mr. Durbeyfield of his grand lineage, thus
            setting in motion the events that change the fate of Tess Durbeyfield
            forever. Interestingly, the parson’s tone is casual, as if he is
            unable even to conceive of how his news might lead to tragedy later.
            For the parson it is genealogical trivia, but for Durbeyfield it
            feels like fate—the deepest truth about himself, like Oedipus’s
            discovery of his own identity. The fact that this prophetic news
            is delivered on the road, in an open field, right at the beginning
            of the work is reminiscent of the opening of 
Macbeth.
 There,
            the witches address Macbeth as “Thane of Cawdor” and “King of Scotland,”
            just as the parson addresses Durbeyfield as “Sir John.” As in Macbeth’s
            case, the noble address leads to disaster and death—in this case,
            the death of the “rightful” d’Urberville, Alec.
         


	Hardy emphasizes the irony of Durbeyfield’s situation
            not only by contrasting the common peddler on the road with the
            image of the “renowned knight” who was his forebear, but also by
            contrasting the modes of address of Durbeyfield and the parson.
            The parson has just addressed him as “Sir John,” which sets the
            whole conversation in motion, but we see here that the parson soon
            lapses back into the familiar tone more appropriate to one addressing
            a social inferior: “Don’t you really know, Durbeyfield. . . . “
            Durbeyfield does the same: despite his discovery that he is Sir
            John, it is he who calls the parson “sir” here. The ironies multiply,
            making questions of class and identity complex and unstable, as
            Hardy intends to depict them.
         








2
.	Clare
               came close, and bent over her. “Dead, dead, dead!” he murmured.
               After fixedly regarding her for some moments with the same gaze
               of unmeasurable woe he bent lower, enclosed her in his arms, and
               rolled her in the sheet as in a shroud. Then lifting her from the
               bed with as much respect as one would show to a dead body, he carried
               her across the room, murmuring, “My poor poor Tess, my dearest darling Tess!
               So sweet, so good, so true!” The words of endearment, withheld so
               severely in his waking hours, were inexpressibly sweet to her forlorn
               and hungry heart. If it had been to save her weary life she would
               not, by moving or struggling, have put an end to the position she
               found herself in. Thus she lay in absolute stillness, scarcely venturing
               to breathe, and, wondering what he was going to do with her, suffered herself
               to be borne out upon the landing. “My wife—dead, dead!” he said.
            




In Chapter XXXVII, Angel Clare begins
            to sleepwalk on the third night of his estrangement from Tess, having
            rejected her as his wife because of her earlier disgrace. Like Lady
            Macbeth’s sleepwalking scene, Angel’s nighttime somnambulism reveals
            an inner conflict within a character who earlier seems convinced
            of a moral idea, in control, and inflexible. For Lady Macbeth, her
            earlier cold protestations that killing a king is justifiable are
            belied by her unconscious fixation on being bloodstained. For Angel,
            the situation is reversed. He consciously maintains a conviction
            that Tess is bad, corrupt, and cannot be forgiven, but his unconscious
            sleepwalking self reveals the tender love and moral respect for
            her (“so good, so true!”) that he feels somewhere inside him. This
            revelation foreshadows his final realization, too late, that his
            condemnation of Tess was wrongheaded. Angel’s words “dead, dead,
            dead” hint at Tess’s future death, but they also signal Angel’s
            conception of Tess. She is alive physically, but for him she is
            dead morally, as dead as an idea of purity that he once revered.
         








3
.	Under
               the trees several pheasants lay about, their rich plumage dabbled
               with blood; some were dead, some feebly twitching a wing, some staring
               up at the sky, some pulsating quickly, some contorted, some stretched
               out—all of them writhing in agony except the fortunate ones whose
               tortures had ended during the night by the inability of nature to
               bear more. With the impulse of a soul who could feel for kindred sufferers
               as much as for herself, Tess’s first thought was to put the still
               living birds out of their torture, and to this end with her own
               hands she broke the necks of as many as she could find, leaving
               them to lie where she had found them till the gamekeepers should
               come, as they probably would come, to look for them a second time.
               “Poor darlings—to suppose myself the most miserable being on earth
               in the sight o’ such misery as yours!” she exclaimed, her tears running
               down as she killed the birds tenderly.
            




Tess stumbles upon the pheasants at
            the end of Chapter XLI, feeling like a “hunted soul.” The dying
            birds symbolize her own condition. It is a strange and unexpected
            image, since throughout all the scenes of farm life we have witnessed
            in the novel, there has never been any killing. Farming is always
            associated with production, never with loss or sacrifice. But hunting
            is different: it kills creatures, and does so unnecessarily. It
            is gratuitous cruelty. The image of silently suffering victims of
            violence evokes Tess’s quiet acceptance of her own violation at
            the hands of Alec, which was also gratuitous. In a literary sense,
            these flightless birds stand in sharp contrast to the high-flying
            birds of Romantic poetry—we recall that Angel is compared to Shelley,
            who wrote an ode to a skylark. Romantic birds leave the Earth below
            to soar into a higher plane of existence, but the birds here have
            no such luck, having been shot down as Tess has been.
         


	Tess’s killing of these suffering birds suggests that
            she is killing off that part of herself that has quietly accepted
            many years of agony. After this scene Tess begins to show a more
            active resolution that culminates in her final murder of Alec. Her
            newfound activity may not save her; indeed, her punishment for the
            murder, presumably death by hanging, will snap her neck just like
            she snaps the necks of these pheasants. Nevertheless, it may be
            preferable to her earlier passivity, providing her with a nobler
            way to face her fate.
         








4
.	
               As soon as she drew close to it she discovered all in a moment that
               the figure was a living person; and the shock to her sense of not
               having been alone was so violent that she was quite overcome, and
               sank down nigh to fainting, not however till she had recognized
               Alec d’Urberville in the form. He leapt off the slab and supported
               her. “I saw you come in,” he said smiling, “and got up there not
               to interrupt your meditations. A family gathering, is it not, with
               these old fellows under us here? Listen.” He stamped with his heel heavily
               on the floor; whereupon there arose a hollow echo from below. “That
               shook them a bit, I’ll warrant,” he continued. “And you thought
               I was the mere stone reproduction of one of them. But no. The old
               order changeth. The little finger of the sham d’Urberville can do more
               for you than the whole dynasty of the real underneath. . . . Now
               command me. What shall I do?”
            




Having sought shelter for her family
            in the ancient clan’s church in Chapter LII, Tess has gone out walking
            at night and has come upon her family vault and Alec d’Urberville.
            Hardy’s irony is deep here: originally, the knowledge that Tess
            belongs to the d’Urberville line brings her into tragic conflict
            with Alec, and here those ancestors and Alec are united before her
            dazed eyes. The two main factors in her sad fate are brought together
            for her viewing. Moreover, it is ironic that Alec is at first mistaken
            for one of the sculpted ancestors, as if the distinction between
            the truly noble d’Urbervilles and the “sham” ones—to use Alec’s
            own word—is not as important as it first seemed. They are all part
            of the same display. Whether true or fake, the d’Urbervilles have
            brought Tess only grief. When Alec stomps on the floor of the crypt
            and a “hollow echo from below” is heard, we feel that those ancestors
            may indeed be nothing more than an empty void, a meaningless nothingness.
            Alec believes he is different from them, since he has power over
            her while they do not, but in fact he is just like them, using his
            power like a grand lord although he is quite hollow. He promises
            empty advantages to her, like the wealth she eventually receives
            from him, that can never be more important than love. This scene
            in the corpse-ridden vault shows how 
dead
 all thoughts
            of personal grandeur are next to the life of true feeling, like
            that of Tess’s feelings for Angel.
         








5
.	“Justice”
               was done, and the President of the Immortals (in Aeschylean phrase)
               had ended his sport with Tess. And the d’Urberville knights and
               dames slept on in their tombs unknowing. The two speechless gazers
               bent themselves down to the earth, as if in prayer, and remained
               there a long time, absolutely motionless: the flag continued to
               wave silently. As soon as they had strength they arose, joined hands
               again, and went on.
            




This passage is the last paragraph of
            Chapter LIX at the close of 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles.
 Its
            tired and unimpassioned tone suggests the narrator’s weariness with
            the ways of the world, as if quite familiar with the fact that life
            always unfolds in this way. Nothing great is achieved by this finale:
            the two figures of Liza-Lu and Angel “went on” at the end, just
            as life itself will go on. Ignorance rules, rather than understanding:
            the d’Urberville ancestors who cause the tragedy are not even moved
            from their slumber, blithely unaffected by the agony and death of
            one of their own line. Tess’s tale has not been a climactic unfolding,
            but a rather humdrum affair that perhaps happens all the time.
         


	In this sense, there is great irony in Hardy’s reference
            to the Greek tragedian Aeschylus, since we feel tragedy should be
            more impassioned, like the 
Prometheus Bound
 referred
            to here. Prometheus dared to steal fire from the gods for the benefit
            of men, thus improving human life, but he was punished by eternal
            agony sent by the president of the gods. Aeschylus’s view of that
            divine justice was ironic—just as Hardy’s justice is placed in ironic
            quotation marks—since it seemed deeply unjust to punish Prometheus
            so severely. Our judgment of Prometheus’s crime matters immensely.
            Yet Tess’s suffering, by contrast, seems simply a game or “sport,”
            as if nothing important is at stake. It is hard to know whether
            Tess has brought any benefits to anyone, though Angel’s life has
            been changed and Liza-Lu may grow up to be like her sister. In any
            case, Hardy hints that Tess’s life may have a mythical and tragic
            importance like that of Prometheus, but it is up to us to judge
            how ironic this justice is, or what her life’s importance might
            be.
         




OceanofPDF.com













Key Facts




Full Title 
 · 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles






Author 
 · Thomas Hardy
         






Type of work 
 · Novel
         






Genre 
 · Victorian, tragic
         






Language 
 · English
         






Time and place written 
 · 
1880
s, England
         






Date of first publication 
 · 
1891






Publisher 
 · Random House, but also published serially in different periodicals
         






Narrator 
 · Anonymous
         






Point of view 
 · The narrator speaks in the third person, and looks
            deep into the characters’ minds. The narrator is objective but has
            an omniscient understanding of future implications of characters’ actions
            as they happen.
         






Tone 
 · Realistic, pessimistic
         






Tense 
 · Past
         






Setting (time) 
 · The 
1880
s and 
1890
s
         






Setting (place) 
 · Wessex, the southwest of England
         






Protagonist 
 · Tess Durbeyfield
         






Major conflict 
 · Tess is seduced, impregnated, and abandoned by the
            son of her upper-class patroness, making her unacceptable to her
            true love Angel later in life.
         






Rising action 
 · Tess’s family’s discovery that they are ancient English
            aristocracy, giving them all fantasies of a higher station in life;
            Tess’s accidental killing of the family horse, which drives her 
            to seek help from the d’Urbervilles, where she is seduced 
            and dishonored.
         






Climax 
 · Tess’s new husband discovers her earlier seduction
            by Alec and decides to leave her, going off to Brazil and not answering
            her letters, and bringing Tess to despair.
         






Falling action 
 · Tess’s last-ditch decision to marry Alec, who claims
            to love her; Angel’s return from Brazil to discover Tess marriage
            to her former seducer, and his meeting with Tess; Tess’s murder
            of Alec and short-lived escape with Angel before being apprehended
            and executed
         






Themes 
 · The injustice of existence; changing ideas of social
            class in Victorian England; men dominating women
         






Motifs 
 · Birds; the Book of Genesis; variant names
         






Symbols 
 · Prince; the d’Urberville family vault; Brazil
         






Foreshadowing 
 · Tess’s killing of the pheasants foreshadows her own
            death by hanging; Alec’s assertion that he will “master” Tess again foreshadows
            his reemergence in her life
         




OceanofPDF.com













Study Questions & Essay Topics




Study Questions




1. 
	Discuss the
               character of Tess. To what extent is she a helpless victim? When
               is she strong and when is she weak?
            


Tess is a young woman who tends to find herself
               in the wrong place at the wrong time. She is a victim, but she is
               also, at times, irresponsible. She falls asleep while taking the
               beehives to market, which ends up killing the family horse, Prince.
               She decides to visit the d’Urbervilles in Trantridge, giving rise
               to all her future woes, partly out of the guilt and responsibility
               she feels toward her family. She wants to make good, but in trying
               to help her family she loses sight of her own safety and her own
               wants and wishes. She becomes Alec’s victim in the forest. She probably
               should have known not to put herself in such a situation, but she
               has few other options. Here, it seems as though she is destined
               to rely on others, even when they are unreliable.
            


	But Tess is also a strong woman throughout the novel.
               She stands up for herself and refuses to crumble under pressure.
               She chastises herself for her weakness after her sexual escapade
               with Alec. If we agree with her claim that this indiscretion is
               a moment of weakness, we probably also feel that such weakness is
               not unlike that of most human beings. She is hard on herself for
               letting herself become a victim. At the burial of her child, Sorrow,
               she weeps but collects herself and moves on as a stronger woman.
               Overall, her determined attempts to escape her past primarily reflect
               her strength.
            






2. 
	Discuss the
               role of landscape in the novel. How do descriptions of place match
               the development of the story? Does the passing of the seasons play
               any symbolic role?
            


The landscape always seems to inform us about
               the emotion and character of the event. Whjen the novel opens at
               the village dance, the sun is out and the day is beautiful. This
               celebration is where Tess and Angel meet, even if only briefly.
               The weather turns as Tess returns home, where the scene is less
               elegant. Throughout the novel, many of the bad events occur in a
               dark and deep forest, and Alec and Tess interact numerous times
               in such a forest.
            


	The seasons bring changes to the story as well. At Talbothays Dairy,
               the summer is full of budding love between Tess and Angel. When
               they profess their love for each other, it begins to rain, but neither
               one cares: the weather cannot affect them. When they separate, Angel
               goes to Brazil and finds the farming extremely difficult, while Tess
               goes to work at the farm at Flintcomb-Ash, where the work in the
               rugged, depressing stubble fields is harsh and grueling.
            






3. 
	Hardy rarely
               questions public morality openly in 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles
.
               Nevertheless, the novel has been taken as a powerful critique of
               the social principles that were dominant in Tess’s time. How does
               Hardy achieve this effect? Why might we infer a level of social
               criticism beneath Tess’s story?
            


Our sense that 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles
 implicitly
               criticizes Hardy’s society owes much to Hardy’s use of a classical
               tragic plot ending in an undeserved punishment. Tess’s story contains
               many features of Greek tragedy, as Hardy’s reference at the end
               of the novel to Aeschylus’s 
Prometheus Bound
 reminds
               us. The classical tragic hero, according to Aristotle, is noble
               and dignified, and is punished on a far greater scale than his small
               sins warrant, with death. Tess too is highborn and honorable, and
               her momentary submission to Alec brings her a far greater suffering
               than she deserves, as even Alec comes to realize. In addition, as
               is usual with the demise of tragic heroes, Tess’s execution feels
               more significant than a mere death—it feels like a great and noble
               sacrifice to some higher power’s will. But in her case, the higher
               power is not the gods, but Victorian social forces. It is the Victorian
               cult of aristocratic lineage that drives Tess to seek the patronage
               of Mrs. d’Urberville and meet her seducer Alec. It is the unfair
               class system that allows a rich nobleman to impregnate and abandon
               a lower-class girl without consequences. It is also the Victorian
               myth of the pure virginal bride that unfairly keeps Angel from accepting
               Tess as his wife, despite his own besmirched sexual history. These
               social injustices bring undeserved suffering to Tess, as the ancient
               gods brought undeserved suffering to the tragic hero. It is thus
               the tragic structure of 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles
 that
               causes us feel indignation at the unfairness of Victorian society,
               without the need for any outright denunciations by the author.
            








Suggested Essay Topics 


1
.	What is the role of fate in 
Tess
               of the d’Urbervilles
? What does Hardy mean by “fate”? To
            what extent does Tess’s tragedy hinge on improbable coincidence?
         


2
.	Throughout Tess’s story, a
            number of sources are presented as possible moral authorities and
            possible guides on which characters might base their moral choices.
            What are some of these sources? Which of them, if any, prevails?
         


3
.	Discuss the character of Alec.
            Is he the villain of the novel? Does he really love Tess? In what
            ways does he exemplify the novel’s critique of the upper class?
         


4
.	Tess’s story is full of omens,
            and her tragedy is largely prefigured by all the bad omens that
            occur throughout her story. What are some of these omens? Are they
            an effective device? Do they build suspense, or are they simply
            a kind of heavy-handed foreshadowing?
         


5
.	Social class and lineage are
            powerful forces for determining character in the novel. What role
            does Tess’s noble lineage play in the depiction of her character?
            With regard to noble blood, is it possible that the novel’s portrayal
            of Tess advances some of the very social stereotypes it otherwise
            criticizes?
         


6
.	Hardy’s style has been praised
            as rhythmic and imaginative, and also criticized as clunky and rough-edged.
            How is Hardy’s style best characterized? What are some of its other characteristics?
         




OceanofPDF.com













Review & Resources




Quiz




1
.	The action of
               the novel takes place in what area of England?
            




A.	Essex
B.	Sussex
C.	Wessex
D.	London
               








2
.	Which of the following
               does John Durbeyfield learn at the beginning of the novel?
            




A.	That he has lost his job
B.	That he comes from an aristocratic family
C.	That he won the lottery
D.	That he is a prince
               








3
.	Angel and Tess
               first see each other at:
            




A.	The market
B.	The May Day dance
C.	Trantridge
D.	Talbothays Dairy
               








4
.	Who tells Angel
               that Tess has gone to Sandbourne?
            




A.	Mrs. Brooks
B.	Reverend Clare
C.	Alec
D.	Mrs. Durbeyfield
               








5
.	After Angel picks
               up Tess while sleepwalking, where does he place her?
            




A.	In a coffin
B.	In their bed
C.	On a rock
D.	On a bridge
               








6
.	Which of these
               women is not a milkmaid?
            




A.	Marian
B.	Izz
C.	Mercy
D.	Retty
               








7
.	Angel plays which
               musical instrument?
            




A.	The harpsichord
B.	The accordion
C.	The harp
D.	The guitar
               








8
.	In what town did
               Tess grow up?
            




A.	Kingsbere
B.	Trantridge
C.	Sandbourne
D.	Marlott
               








9
.	Why can’t Mr.
               Durbeyfield make the trip to the market?
            




A.	He is too sick
B.	He is too tired
C.	He is too old
D.	He is too drunk
               








10
.	What advice does
               Mrs. Durbeyfield give Tess?
            




A.	Not to tell Angel her secret
B.	Not to tell Alec her secret
C.	To leave Alec
D.	To marry Alec
               








11
.	How much money
               does Angel give to Tess?
            




A.	
100
 shillin
B.	gs
100
 poun
C.	ds
50
 poun
D.	ds
50
 shillings
               








12
.	How much of the
               money does Tess initially give to her family?
            




A.	
25
 shillin
B.	gs
25
 poun
C.	ds
50
 poun
D.	ds
50
 shillings
               








13
.	What part of
               the house do the Durbeyfields need to repair?
            




A.	The floor
B.	The wall
C.	The roof
D.	The door
               








14
.	Where is the
               Talbothays Dairy located?
            




A.	The Valley of the Herons
B.	The Valley of Marlott
C.	The Valley of the Great Dairies
D.	The Valley of the Small Dairies
               








15
.	Who does Cuthbert
               Clare marry?
            




A.	Izz
B.	Mercy Chant
C.	Liza-Lu
D.	Marian
               








16
.	Midway through
               the novel, Alec becomes a:
            




A.	Farmer
B.	Preacher
C.	Traveling salesman
D.	Nice guy
               








17
.	Who is primarily
               responsible for Prince’s death?
            




A.	Mr. Durbeyfield
B.	Parson Tringham
C.	Abraham
D.	Tess
               








18
.	Angel leaves
               England to farm where?
            




A.	America
B.	Italy
C.	Brazil
D.	Argentina
               








19
.	What is the stone
               monument called on which Alec makes Tess swear?
            




A.	Stonehenge
B.	Poor Man’s Pass
C.	Cross-in-Hand
D.	The Rosetta Stone
               








20
.	Which of these
               people or animals does Tess not kill?
            




A.	The pheasants
B.	Alec
C.	Sorrow, her baby
D.	Prince, the horse
               








21
.	What is the name
               of the bar to which the Durbeyfield’s go?
            




A.	McSorely’s
B.	Rolliver’s
C.	Heffernan’s
D.	Ye Olde Pubbe
               








22
.	What does Tess
               confess to Angel on their wedding night?
            




A.	That she lied about her age
B.	That she does not love him
C.	That she is not a virgin
D.	That she ran away from home
               








23
.	Liza-Lu is Tess’s:
            




A.	Daughter
B.	Sister
C.	Mother
D.	Friend
               








24
.	How does Alec
               die?
            




A.	He commits suicide
B.	Angel kills him
C.	Tess kills him
D.	He does not die
               








25
.	How does Tess
               die?
            




A.	Pneumonia
B.	She is hanged
C.	Angel kills her
D.	Heartache
               








Answer Key:


1
: C; 
2
:
               B; 
3
: B; 
4
: D; 
5
:
               A; 
6
: C; 
7
: C; 
8
:
               D; 
9
: D; 
10
: A; 
11
:
               C; 
12
: B; 
13
: C; 
14
:
               C; 
15
: B; 
16
: B; 
17
:
               D; 
18
: C; 
19
: C; 
20
:
               C; 
21
: B; 
22
: C; 
23
: B; 
24
:
               C; 
25
: B
            








Suggestions for Further Reading


Beer, Gillian. “Descent and Sexual Selection:
            Women in Narrative.” In 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles,
 ed.
            by Scott Elledge. New York: W.W. Norton and Company, 
1991
: 
446
-
451
.
         


Bloom, Harold. 
Thomas Hardy’s Tess of
               the d’Urbervilles.
 New York: Chelsea House, 
1987
.
         


Casagrande, Peter J. 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles:
               Unorthodox Beauty.
 New York: Maxwell Macmillan International, 
1992
.
         


Laird, J. T. 
The
               Shaping of 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles.
 Oxford: Clarendon
            Press, 
1975
.
         


LaValley, Albert J.
 
Twentieth
               Century Interpretations of 
Tess of the d’Urbe
               rvilles. 
Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 
1969
.
         


Mills, Sara,
 ed. 
Feminist
               Readings/Feminists Reading.
 New York: Prentice Hall, 
1996
.
         


Parkinson, Michael H.
 
The
               Rural Novel: Jeremias Gotthelf, Thomas Hardy, C.F. Ramuz.
 New
            York: P. Lang, 
1984
.
         


Van Ghent, Dorothy. “On 
Tess of the d’Urbervilles.
”
            In 
The English Novel: Form and Function.
 New York:
            Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 
1964
.
         


Widdowson, Peter,
 ed. 
Tess
               of the d’Urbervilles: Thomas Hardy.
 Hampshire: Macmillan, 
1993
.
         


Wright, Terence.
 
Tess
               of the d’Urbervilles.
 Hampshire: Macmillan Publishers, 
1987
.
         




OceanofPDF.com



