









Contents




Cover


Title Page


Dedication


Contents


Map


Prologue


Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4


Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7


Chapter 8


Chapter 9


Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12


Chapter 13


Chapter 14


Chapter 15


Chapter 16


Chapter 17


Chapter 18


Chapter 19


Chapter 20


Chapter 21


Chapter 22


Chapter 23


Chapter 24


Chapter 25


Chapter 26


Chapter 27


Chapter 28


Chapter 29


Chapter 30


Epilogue


About the Author


Copyright






OceanofPDF.com















OceanofPDF.com















OceanofPDF.com













This book is dedicated to the new adventurers, those who believe in preserving our planet, our greatest inheritance.


Wilbur Smith


OceanofPDF.com













CONTENTS


Prologue


Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4


Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7


Chapter 8


Chapter 9


Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12


Chapter 13


Chapter 14


Chapter 15


Chapter 16


Chapter 17


Chapter 18


Chapter 19


Chapter 20


Chapter 21


Chapter 22


Chapter 23


Chapter 24


Chapter 25


Chapter 26


Chapter 27


Chapter 28


Chapter 29


Chapter 30


Epilogue


 


About the Author


Copyright


OceanofPDF.com













 


 


 




OceanofPDF.com













PROLOGUE


It was well past curfew in Pretoria, and Lindiwe Matuza hurried through the deserted streets, holding the strap of her backpack tight against her shoulder. ‘You don’t have to run,’ she told herself. ‘You have permission to be outside. And this is 
important
. Mr Khumalo needs the information on that laptop. He wouldn’t have asked otherwise.’ But she knew it wasn’t running into patrolling police officers that scared her.


It was the risk of infection. Of catching the virus.


The fear lay deep in her bones as Lindiwe pushed herself on, occasionally pausing for breath in the orange haze of a street light. It was her pride in her work for Mr Khumalo’s election campaign that motivated her to make the journey from the Green Freedom Party headquarters to Mr Khumalo’s home. As party leader, Max Khumalo talked about wanting to build a society that looked after everyone, not just President Mbato’s rich associates and powerful lobby groups, and Lindiwe and other young people she knew were inspired by the hope he represented.


But her passion for change didn’t stop her thinking about safety precautions. Her mask made her nose and chin sweat. It had a protective filter sewn into its layers of cloth, but she knew that wasn’t a guaranteed defence against virus‑laden aerosols. 
There’s no one around
, she thought. 
You can take it off
.


But the footage of suffering victims, playing 24/7 on the news channels, forced her to keep the mask on. The nightmare virus had engulfed first her home city of Pretoria, then South Africa – then the whole world. Tens of thousands of people were dead, and no country had been left untouched by the virus. It started with a fever and aching joints and went on to coughing up blood and – far too often – a swift death. It had spread around the world faster than governments could act. Younger victims had a better survival rate, but Lindiwe didn’t know anyone who was brave enough to take careless risks.


As she turned into the wide, leafy avenue, Lindiwe thought it was eerie for the neighbourhood to be so deserted. The grand houses were masked by imposing gates and high fences. 
I can’t fix a pandemic, but at least I can still make a difference to the world
, she told herself. As the youngest intern working for the Green Freedom Party in the run‑up to the elections, Lindiwe had been sure she’d be sent home to wait out the lockdown. Instead, to her surprise and pride, Mr Khumalo had made her his personal assistant. Although she had overheard the campaign manager talking to someone else on the team: 
Makes sense that Max would pick her. Teens are least likely to get the worst symptoms of the virus . . . and the least likely to be working for the opposition.


Lindiwe liked to hope there had been more to her appointment than just youth. She might only be sixteen but she liked to think she had a lot to offer.


When she reached Mr Khumalo’s house, a security man was leaning against the front gate. Lindiwe should have felt reassured, but instead she felt a twinge of fear. She was living and working at Campaign HQ in the centre of the city, in lockdown with the rest of the team. Meeting someone new felt so dangerous. 
He could have the virus
, she thought. 
He could give it to me
.


As Lindiwe approached, the man straightened. She saw he was wearing a sleek, dark respirator mask. He held out a hand. ‘OK, stay there,’ he warned. ‘Let’s keep plenty of distance. What’s your name?’


‘I’m Lindiwe Matuza,’ she called, her voice muffled through her mask. ‘I’m personal assistant to –’


‘Yeah, Mr Khumalo sent over your picture.’ The guard pulled out a phone and checked the screen. ‘That’s a match, kid. You need letting in?’


‘I have a key,’ she called.


‘Then I’ll get out of your way.’ The guard pressed his finger to his phone screen and the gates to the residence slowly swung open. ‘In you go.’


Lindiwe walked forward, impressed by the stately home she saw beyond the barrier. As she walked up the neatly paved pathway, security lights snapped on. Beyond the bright glow of the lights, shadows stretched across immaculate lawns in the gathering evening darkness. The large windows, framed with tasteful trims, gave a glimpse of the world within; they seemed to whisper stories of laughter and love shared among family and friends.


With a twinge, Lindiwe thought of Mr Khumalo’s son, Grant, and sighed as she pressed on to the front porch, with its graceful pillars. The front door opened easily. Only after she had slipped into the cool tiled hallway and closed the door behind her did Lindiwe finally pull off the mask and draw in a deep, grateful breath. She could hear a strange hissing sound; Lindiwe supposed it was the air con, or a filtering system, keeping possible pathogens out of the atmosphere.


The hall was large, with minimal furniture. 
Nice, but not too showy
, she thought approvingly. 
Just like the man himself
. The man who hoped to become the next president of South Africa at the election in three weeks’ time.


‘And you’re his assistant,’ she told herself out loud. ‘So, get assisting.’ Once she’d found the laptop Mr Khumalo had asked for, she’d head back and join the others working on the election campaign.


Mr Khumalo had told her that his study was off the hall on the right. Lindiwe found herself tiptoeing into the room; the house was too quiet. She went over to the elegant wooden desk and gave the framed photo of Grant there a little brush with her fingertips. Grant went to the same school as she did, and had told her about the part‑time intern job. She used to hope that Grant had helped her because he liked her. Now she didn’t know what to think about him. He had gone missing weeks ago, and since then footage had emerged linking him to anti‑hunt activists who the state media claimed were responsible for unleashing the virus.


Of course, Max Khumalo’s political opponents were making the most of Grant’s apparent involvement, despite several independent sources claiming that the footage had been faked. The ordeal was taking its toll on Mr Khumalo. He continued to protest his son’s innocence, trying to prove that Grant had been abducted and forced to take part in whatever he was involved in. But the rumours and conspiracy theories were like a virus themselves, multiplying beyond anyone’s ability to control them. Lindiwe chose to believe Grant, to stay loyal, but she knew that many people saw the situation as proof that all politicians were self‑serving liars. The Green Freedom Party had slipped in the polls as locked‑down voters vented their anger.


And South Africa’s President Mbato was not above feeding that anger, with carefully phrased press statements that pointed the finger at political opponents and minority groups, stoking discontent into a blaze to distract people from his own government’s failings. In his house, protected by razor wire, and his offices in the top floor of a glass‑walled skyscraper, the president would never understand what regular people were living through. The fear of dying . . . the disruptions in supplies of food and medicines . . . the removal of basic freedoms. Everyone was so busy working out how to schedule supermarket trips and hoping that there would be food on the shelves when they were finally allowed to go that they had little energy left to scrutinise Mbato’s corrupt government. But Lindiwe was part of a growing groundswell – regular people and news outlets were starting to resist the government PR line. Some commentators even claimed that Mbato would postpone the election, that he was using the lockdown as an excuse to extend his term of office – dictatorship by stealth. Lindiwe would do anything she could to stop that happening. That was why she worked so hard: because she believed her country deserved better than a leader who cared more about controlling people and creating scapegoats than improving people’s lives.


The steady hissing of the air filters was louder in this room. Lindiwe licked her cracked lips; her mouth felt dry. She searched through the drawers of Mr Khumalo’s desk, but the laptop wasn’t there.


Something else was in the room, though.


Lindiwe heard a sharp rasping 
chik‑chik
 and stared in horror as a creature the size of a small dog, but dark, chitinous and 
clawed
, crept out from behind the heavy half‑closed curtains. Lindiwe’s heart thumped, then seemed to freeze in primal fear.


Her vision narrowed. Everything ground into sticky slow motion as the nightmare of arachnid legs and pincers moved clear of the curtains. It was a scorpion – but one of monstrous proportions. Its body was at least half a metre long, and the curve of its segmented tail brought its thick stinger up to her hip height. She’d never seen anything like it.


Quickly, Lindiwe retreated behind a chair. The scorpion froze, and Lindiwe saw its cluster of eyes around its hideous head: they were bright red, like fresh blood.


Suddenly the monster scuttled towards Lindiwe with horrible speed. Adrenaline and terror made Lindiwe push over the heavy wooden chair. It landed on top of the giant scorpion, pinning it to the floor. Repulsed, Lindiwe brought her foot down hard on the underside of the chair, crushing the beast against the floor. The sickening crunch of carapace and the stench of the thick fluid that burst from it brought her back to herself. Lindiwe took a shaking breath and stared at the dark, mangled mess on the floor. 
Where the hell did
 that 
come from? 


Wherever it was, another gigantic scorpion had followed. It stalked silently into sight from behind the desk.


Without thinking, Lindiwe ran in panic from the study. But yet another scorpion now stood in front of the front door. Its legs clicked and chittered on the tiles as it started towards her.


Groaning with fear, Lindiwe pelted up the stairs, stumbling as she reached the landing. She heard the 
chik‑chik
 again and turned to see both scorpions pursuing her. She scrambled up, wrenched open the nearest door and ran into the room, slamming the door behind her. She fumbled for a light switch and saw with a frisson of embarrassment that she was in the master bedroom. It was spotlessly clean, dominated by a large, neatly made bed. The only sound was that of the air filters, which seemed even louder in here, and her own ragged breathing.


This can’t be happening
, she thought desperately. 
No scorpion’s as big as they are
. And yet she knew from the cold hate in their bulging red eyes that these creatures were real – and aggressive. They had come at her, homing in. And at that size, the venom in their stings had to be deadly.


But if they’re here, it’s not
 me 
they’re after
, Lindiwe thought. 
It’s Mr Khumalo. I have to get out and warn him!
 She ran for the window. If she couldn’t climb down, maybe she could shout out to the guard for help.


Lindiwe wasn’t even halfway towards the window before two more of the giant scorpions crawled out from under the bed and ran for her, their arched tails twisting and bending. One ran into Lindiwe’s legs, knocking them from under her. As she fell, she felt something sharp, like a giant needle, hook into her shoulder. Screaming, she rolled onto her back. The second scorpion jumped on top of her and its stinger lanced down into her chest. Lindiwe screamed again as pain surged through her body. She couldn’t feel her limbs, but she saw its huge claws clamped around her wrists, pinning her to the carpet. Her ribs ached and it was hard to breathe. As the world grew dark and dizzy, all Lindiwe could hear was the steady hissing of the filters. All she could see were the scorpions’ red eyes, cold and narrowed, staring down at her.


This is all wrong
, Lindiwe thought numbly as a third stinger drove between her ribs. 
I’m not meant to die here. 


The scorpion creatures did not care. They killed the young intern as indifferently as they would have killed anyone else.


OceanofPDF.com













1


Ralph Ballantyne checked the knots in the ropes holding Josef Gerhard to the chair. Still tight, still holding fast. He couldn’t deny he felt some satisfaction in seeing the man who’d done so much to hurt him and his family and friends trussed up like a turkey in a cleaning cupboard in his own underground complex. He glanced across at his sister, Robyn, and from the grim smile on her face guessed that she must feel very much the same.


He was struck for a moment by how gaunt Robyn looked after the weeks of ordeal they’d been through together. Living on the run. Hardly a thing to eat. Chased across the Lebombo Mountains by soldiers, poachers and predator beasts. Sickness, stress, trauma. He hadn’t fared so well himself: his clothes hung loose on him and his body was a mass of bruises. He’d barely recognised himself in the mirror yesterday.


Then there were the changes on the 
inside
. Ralph knew that he and his sister had been transformed by their experiences. Hardened. Neither of them would be the same again.


He eyed the half‑filled syringe in his sister’s hand.


‘Stay back,’ Gerhard hissed, his grey eyes bulging as Robyn took a step towards him. ‘Don’t you come near me with that!’


‘After all that you’ve put us through?’ Robyn snorted. She held up the syringe and pushed gently on the plunger to release a few viscous drops from the needle. ‘You should be thanking me, not whining like the sick animal you are.’


‘Rob, are you sure about this?’ said Ralph quietly. ‘Maybe he doesn’t deserve it.’


Gerhard was a monster, sure: a brilliant tech mogul turned mad scientist. He’d been playing God with DNA, breeding prehistoric predators and other ancient beasts for his hunting grounds in a clandestine programme of animal cruelty – backed by the president of South Africa himself, Julius Mbato. And in the course of his sick experiments he’d unleashed a deadly virus that was now affecting millions – and he had manipulated the media to put the blame squarely on the Ballantynes.


‘He deserves to be punished,’ said Robyn, her eyes on Gerhard as he struggled against his ropes. ‘And I’m going to make sure it happens. He’s not wriggling out of this.’


Ralph jumped at a rap on the door.


‘Ralph, Robyn?’ came the voice of their father, Roland Ballantyne. ‘Everything all right in there with our house guest?’


‘It will be,’ Robyn said, moving within reach of Gerhard’s arm. ‘One little scratch and it will all be over . . .’


The door opened and Roland walked into the room. His sheer physical presence made the room feel half as large, and the cuts and bruises on his face only emphasised his heroic good looks. Behind him came Niko, his girlfriend. Niko’s friendly, unassuming air belied her determination to excel. She was a professor of epidemiology and zoonotic diseases, and she worked for a medical organisation called SangoMed, but all her knowledge and expertise had meant nothing when she’d contracted the virus herself. She still looked pale and unwell; that she’d survived at all was a small miracle. A miracle wrought by the same antiviral agent that was in Robyn’s syringe.


Robyn looked sullenly at Roland and Niko. ‘I can handle this,’ she said. ‘I don’t need watching over.’


‘We’re not here to watch you,’ said Roland. ‘We’re here to watch 
him
.’


Niko nodded. ‘It’s not every day you get to see Josef Gerhard receive a taste of his own medicine – literally.’


Ralph smiled darkly at the joke. A quirk of Ballantyne inheritance had left Roland and his children with a remarkable natural immunity against Ebola, coronavirus and other viruses. Robyn had come through the sickness with the help of herbal medicines from the local indigenous people, and the resulting antibodies in her blood had then saved Niko from certain death. They hoped that these antibodies would be the basis for a global cure.


‘What’s wrong, Gerhard?’ Niko sneered. ‘You’ve been out for Ballantyne blood for so long, you should be glad you’re finally getting some.’


‘It’s good stuff,’ Roland agreed, clapping Gerhard on the shoulder. ‘Might give you immunity to all kinds of things.’


‘Except justice,’ Ralph put in.


‘I told you to keep away!’ Gerhard nearly spat the words at Robyn. ‘There’s nothing wrong with me. I don’t have the virus.’


‘Not yet,’ Roland agreed. ‘But we’re not taking the risk of you dying from it before you confess your crimes – and those of President Mbato.’


His heart heavy, Ralph nodded. It made him feel sick to think of a man like Mbato in charge of South Africa – a man who longed to legalise big game hunting, to force indigenous tribes from their homelands, to use Gerhard’s tech to further his own influence and ambition. His corruption would poison South Africa for ever if the two of them weren’t stopped.


And taking Gerhard captive is the key
, Ralph thought. 
We need to take him to the city and force him to clear our names – and incriminate himself and Mbato!
 But he had only to look at Gerhard – at the calculating intelligence in his big grey eyes and the snarl on his lips – to know that, even tied up as he was, the man was as dangerous as the predasaurs he’d raised, and their plan wasn’t going to be that simple.


‘Get going, Rob,’ said Roland. ‘We’ve got other things to do.’


‘Like waiting to die?’ Gerhard suggested quietly. ‘It’s been, what, twenty‑four hours since you forced me to warn Mbato to keep this place quarantined? And he hasn’t heard from me since. He’ll have scented a rat by now. You’ll never get away from here.’


Ralph swallowed hard, his stomach knotted as tightly as the ropes holding Gerhard. ‘Yes, we will.’


Roland nodded. ‘And if we don’t, Gerhard, neither will you.’


Robyn raised the syringe. ‘Especially if Niko’s got her formula wrong.’


Gerhard glared at her. ‘What’s in there?’


‘You tested the blood cure on me,’ said Niko coldly. ‘I’ve made one or two adjustments, and now we’re testing it on you.’


‘No.’ Gerhard struggled in the chair. Roland gripped him by the back of the neck, and Niko held his shoulders. ‘No, I won’t have Ballantyne blood in me!’


‘You will,’ said Robyn. ‘And I hope each drop of it burns every vein in your body. Starting right 
here
.’


And she jabbed the needle into his arm.


OceanofPDF.com













2


Robyn walked side by side with Ralph as they followed their dad and Niko through the corridors of the underground complex. She’d thought that giving Gerhard the vaccine against his will would feel empowering, but instead she felt ill. It still sickened her that Gerhard had played so callously with their lives in his experiments to test the immunity factors in her blood. And low in her belly was a stabbing fear: how on earth were they going to survive – let alone defeat the two most powerful men in South Africa?


Her nose twitched at the whiff of chlorine bleach, and she glanced at Ralph. ‘It’s weird to feel clean again after so long stewing in our own sweat.’


‘I’m not sure that animal disinfectant is much improvement,’ Ralph said.


‘Makes me homesick for the pens back home,’ said Robyn, thinking back to all the days she had spent caring for injured wildlife at Crocodile Lodge. She’d bonded with so many animals over the years – the pens allowed her to get close enough to share a special connection with them. Eerie, her brother called it. Sometimes she felt she could actually touch their souls.


She’d tried to do the same with Gerhard’s predasaurs – his cave lions, his Ice Age hyenas, his sabretooths – but it was as if he’d had their souls surgically removed, replaced by pain and anger. What else would you expect from someone who would bend nature to create a caricature of an exotic beast just to enhance the realism of 
Predasaur
 – his bestselling video game?


Gerhard’s operations were as sick as they were fantastic. He unleashed his unnatural beasts to dispose of his allies’ enemies, and used real videos of their attacks and deaths to make 
Predasaur
 more realistic and exciting. Robyn was certain that Gerhard got a thrill from hearing gamers rave about how realistic the violence was, unaware that they were watching real animals attack real people. Grant’s mentor Dane Mellanby had been the victim of an animal attack, and Robyn herself had almost been slaughtered by a pack of cave hyenas alongside Grant and Ralph.


She shivered. 
So much violence
. The last time she’d been in the pens at Crocodile Lodge was to tend Jari the lion, maimed for life by one of Gerhard’s creations. Her search for proof and vengeance had started this whole ordeal for all of them and led them here, and she felt a familiar stab of guilt and anger.


Ralph put a gentle hand on her shoulder. ‘What’s done is done,’ he said, as if reading her thoughts. ‘This council of war that Dad’s called is going to decide what we do next – together.’


‘And we have to move fast,’ Roland added, listening in. ‘Gerhard was right. Mbato will know something’s up by now. We don’t know what he’s planning.’


‘We don’t even know what 
we’re
 planning,’ Ralph added.


Niko opened the door to the main lab. Robyn saw Grant Khumalo sitting in an office chair. He met her gaze, then looked shyly away as usual. Behind him stood their family friend Luke van Rok, still thin and haunted after the tortures he’d endured at Gerhard’s hands. And sitting on the floor, looking calm and collected, was Xai, Roland Ballantyne’s best friend and oldest comrade from their days in the armed forces. Xai had managed the Crocodile Lodge Game Reserve alongside Roland for more years than Robyn had been alive. She knew that the two men shared a bond that nothing could destroy; each would willingly follow the other anywhere on Earth.


Xai nodded with a smile as Robyn, Ralph, Niko and Roland trooped inside. ‘Gerhard’s been inoculated?’


‘He has,’ said Roland, ‘with the last of the cure we can spare for now.’


‘We’re going to need every drop when we get back to civilisation,’ Niko added. ‘It’s our best hope for developing a proper vaccine.’


Luke snorted softly. ‘If you ask me, you should have put something lethal in Gerhard’s shot instead.’


‘Someone got real dark, real quickly,’ said Ralph.


‘Why give him another chance to kill us?’


Robyn closed her eyes. She didn’t blame Luke for wanting Gerhard dead. Poor Luke had come closer to death than any of them: hunted and maimed by Gerhard’s cave hyenas, blackmailed into delivering Robyn to Gerhard so he could harvest her blood, with its unique viral antibodies . . .


Indeed, in Robyn’s bleakest moments she had imagined ending Gerhard a hundred times for all he’d done to them. There was no question he deserved it, but to murder him in cold blood . . . Could she . . . ?


‘We’re not killing anyone.’ Roland’s stern words brought her back to the room.


‘We’re trying to clear our names,’ Ralph added. ‘We want the world to know that we’re the good guys.’


‘Oh, I know,’ Luke said bitterly. ‘So, you’ve locked up the rest of Gerhard’s team in the rec room, made them comfortable. Never mind that they’ll be talking, plotting against us, waiting to strike back . . .’


‘Luke, please,’ said Xai, quietly but with enough authority to silence the young man. ‘I don’t blame you for being wary. But we need evidence that incriminates Mbato too. Since there’s no real proof here that he and Gerhard are working together, we need to persuade some of Gerhard’s staff to turn whistleblower and testify against him . . .’


‘They’ll never do that,’ said Robyn. ‘They’re too scared of him.’


‘If only there was something on the computer systems here,’ said Ralph. ‘If we could get emails from Mbato that prove he’s known about the predasaurs and has been using them to kill his political enemies . . .’


‘The few emails on Gerhard’s tablet only dealt with his legit businesses,’ said Roland. ‘And his call history automatically wipes. Makes sense he’d leave nothing in writing.’


‘Not here, anyway,’ Ralph said. ‘This is just Gerhard’s satellite research station. Real evidence must be stored back in his reserve.’


The Josef Gerhard Game Reserve was on land adjoining the Ballantynes’ own. This nightmare had begun when Robyn, Ralph and Luke had sneaked onto his land to find out what had killed an elephant on their own reserve.


Robyn heard her brother sigh. She knew that he and Luke had been through every file on the server here at least twice. Once they’d taken the billionaire captive, they’d hoped to gather enough evidence to hold him to account for his crimes, but all they’d found so far was incomprehensible research into controlling animals with computer chips inserted into their brain – disgusting, but none of it criminal in itself. The most successful test subjects had been the titanoboa, giant prehistoric snakes, but Gerhard had also experimented on arthropods and mammals resurrected from extinction too, such as sabretooths and woolly rhinoceroses.


‘I still need to open that last folder on the server here,’ Luke said sullenly. ‘Kelenken Scorpio.’


Robyn snorted softly. ‘Maybe Mbato’s birthday falls late October to mid‑November.’


‘Is that a star sign joke?’ Grant winced. ‘Scorpi‑
ouch
.’


‘I swear I know that word from somewhere – Kelenken,’ Ralph murmured.


‘Save a copy of the folder, Luke,’ Roland suggested. ‘If we can get to Gerhard’s main complex, we might find passwords or something.’


‘Why risk the journey? There’s more at stake than proving guilt and innocence,’ said Niko pointedly. ‘We’ve got the basics of a vaccine that works. Surely getting the formula to my colleagues at SangoMed should be our priority?’


‘How?’ said Roland. ‘We’re so deep in the bush. If we strike out for Pretoria by road, we’re too vulnerable. Mbato’s bound to have troops waiting for us.’


‘And until we can shut down Gerhard’s comms‑blocking satellite,’ Xai added, ‘there’s no way to reach out to anyone.’


‘We 
have
 to find a way to get through to the outside world,’ Niko insisted. ‘Gerhard’s hotline to Mbato worked fine.’


‘It must connect over a private network relay,’ Luke reasoned.


Roland nodded gloomily. Robyn saw him look at the blank screen of the satellite phone on the desk beside him. His former comrade in the Recces, Yonker, had given it to him before he’d had to leave for Mozambique. 
When all this is over
, Yonker had said to them, 
call me. You, me and Xai, we’ll make it a proper reunion
. Robyn hadn’t known the big man well, but the place was certainly quieter without him. She couldn’t help feeling that he’d bailed on them, but then she supposed the poor guy had already lost his home and livelihood trying to help them. Plus he was giving his time and connections to help the injured Abi – Gerhard’s traitorous security guard – start a new life there. Although, from the way he and Abi had been flirting before they left, Robyn doubted that was purely from the kindness of his heart.


Yonker and Abi helped us get this far
, Robyn reflected. 
But in the end, this is our fight and ours alone.


And it seemed that the fighting among themselves was far from over.


‘Maybe we could bargain with Mbato,’ Niko argued. ‘Give him the cure in exchange for our safety?’


Luke snorted. ‘Like he’d ever honour that! Anyway, he’d take all the credit.’


‘Who cares,’ said Niko, ‘so long as we’re saving lives?’


Robyn half‑smiled; Niko could be just as stubborn as she was. ‘Senosi and his team are already researching the vaccine,’ she reminded her, thinking warmly of the Bakho leader who’d found her when she’d contracted the virus; it was his original formula that had formed the base of the cure Gerhard used to treat Niko. Senosi was a remarkable man who’d learned skills and laws from the West to benefit his people, but he still held true to traditional Bakho ways and values, even after Mbato’s government had stolen their land and given it to mining companies. Senosi and the survivors of his tribe stayed hidden on their lands, despite the government and mining companies doing their best to drive them out. ‘Senosi’s medical set‑up is amazing. The Bakho saved me 
and
 Luke. I reckon the cure is in good hands with them.’


‘SangoMed has greater reach and resources,’ Niko said flatly. ‘The Bakho won’t be able to do tests in vitro using human cell cultures and then trials on human volunteers to confirm efficacy and check for side effects. SangoMed will.’


‘SangoMed stand to make a fortune from a vaccine,’ said Robyn pointedly. ‘The Bakho could name a different price for it.’


‘Like, being given back the lands that the government took from them,’ Grant agreed. ‘My father’s been campaigning for it for years, but Mbato will never give up the land.’


Robyn looked at Grant. ‘Your father! If only he could help us. He’s respected, and as leader of the Green Freedom Party he has a big audience.’


‘He could get our message out, if only we could contact him,’ Roland agreed.


‘Well, the quickest way back to civilisation is to go through Gerhard’s land,’ Ralph said. ‘And if we can kill the comms block and find more evidence, that’s three birds with one stone.’


Robyn had an idea. ‘Speaking of evidence,’ she began. ‘If it all comes down to getting undeniable proof, why not take one of the predasaurs with us?’


Ralph frowned. ‘Are you crazy?’


‘Nah, she’s totally sane.’ Luke smirked. ‘Nice little cave lion. Better than encrypted files with actual information, right, Rob?’


‘I’m serious,’ said Robyn. ‘I’m talking about the woolly rhino calf in the holding pen. If we’re found with an Ice Age animal that’s been recreated from old DNA, then straight away we have the world’s attention, don’t we? And inside all of Gerhard’s animals . . .’


‘Are Gerhard Industries data chips!’ Ralph clapped his hands. ‘Of course. Experts will study the hell out of that woolly rhino – and read the information on that chip.’


‘Which links back to Gerhard!’ Niko smiled. ‘Everyone will 
know
 we’re telling the truth and that the ancient beast – and the virus – came from Gerhard.’


Ralph shook his head. ‘Rob, I hate to admit it, but you’re a genius.’


‘Whatever.’ Robyn found herself blushing and turned away.


‘All right. We have a clear mission objective.’ Roland smiled at Robyn, looking happier now that he could do something. ‘We make for Gerhard’s main reserve. We take out the comms block and try to get hold of Max Khumalo. And we look for anything that proves that Mbato is working with Gerhard. Grant, Ralph – help Robyn get that rhino calf prepped for travel.’


Grant got up eagerly and Robyn turned and made for the door. But she froze in her tracks as a strident chime burst from a speaker in the ceiling.


Xai jumped to his feet in a moment. ‘Perimeter alarm.’


Roland crossed to a workstation. ‘The security systems feed to the console here, don’t they, Luke?’


‘S’right.’ Luke nodded and joined him. ‘Let’s see.’


He killed the alarm. The sudden silence rang in Robyn’s ears.


‘What could’ve set it off?’ Robyn’s stomach had clenched tight. ‘Mbato’s troops? Poachers? More predasaurs?’


‘All at the same time?’ Ralph muttered. ‘That would be just our luck.’


‘Thought Gerhard was using his titanoboas to guard the place?’ said Grant. ‘We took care of those.’


‘There were others in the bush,’ Ralph reminded him. ‘Maybe one of them . . .’


‘There’s no breach in the fence,’ Luke reported, peering at the screen. ‘Looks like a pressure sensor went off.’


‘Where?’ Roland demanded.


Luke flicked through the systems on the screen. ‘One in the roof of the canteen building. Right over the hidden entrance.’


‘The roof?’ Robyn queried. ‘Why would there be a pressure sensor up there?’


‘Placed to detect the downdraught from a helicopter,’ Xai suggested, ‘if it was flying low enough.’


‘Early warning,’ Roland agreed. ‘Luke, can you get eyes on the helipad?’


‘On it,’ Luke muttered. ‘Helipad clear.’


Robyn stared at the screen. ‘Perhaps it was just a scouting run?’


‘Or maybe a bird set off the alarm,’ said Grant hopefully. ‘Something heavy like a kori bustard?’


‘No doubt,’ said Ralph sarcastically.


‘A helicopter wouldn’t need to land to deploy troops,’ said Xai. ‘Whoever’s on board could rappel down right into the compound.’


Luke swore. ‘You mean we’ve already been invaded?’


‘There’s nothing showing on the cameras,’ said Roland calmly.


‘If Mbato’s sent troops,’ said Ralph, ‘they could know the layout of the compound. All the blind spots in the CCTV. Where best to group. How to get down 
here
.’


‘And if they 
do
 get down here,’ said Luke quietly, ‘it’s game over.’


OceanofPDF.com













3


Robyn was hurrying through the brightly lit corridors of the base, making for the holding pens. Grant was jogging to keep up with her while Niko strode purposefully behind.


‘Here we go again, huh?’ Grant said. ‘Lives on the line.’


‘It might be a false alarm,’ Robyn said. One look at Grant told her that neither of them believed it.


Dad will handle it
, she told herself. Roland and Xai had gone above ground to recce the land for any signs of intruders. Ralph and Luke had gone with them to move one of Gerhard’s trucks from the garage to the freight lift and shift a forklift into position, ready to collect the woolly rhino calf in its wheeled transport pen when Robyn, Grant and Niko brought it up from the bowels of the base.


By then, they ought to know if the alarm really had been tripped by local wildlife or if they were under attack again. And though she was afraid for herself and for her friends and family, Robyn’s biggest concern was keeping the calf protected. Not because it could help her family prove Gerhard’s guilt, but because it was more innocent than any of them – a helpless animal brought into this world to be experimented on and discarded.


Not while I’m here
, thought Robyn. She’d always found it easier to relate to animals than humans, cherishing the special connection she shared with them. Although, as she looked at Grant beside her, she felt a very different connection to him: one forged in danger and adrenaline. She couldn’t help wondering if he felt it too.


There’s time for all that if we make it out alive
, she told herself. 
No
. When 
we make it out
.


The corridor led to a familiar steel door. Robyn hesitated briefly; before you could reach the holding pens, you had to brave Gerhard’s examination room. It was here that Gerhard’s team had drawn blood from her, first for research, then to give Niko the transfusion that had saved her life.


Niko squeezed her shoulder, a gesture of reassurance and gratitude. 
We’ve come a long way
, Robyn thought. 
I used to hate you for getting close to my dad, for making me think he might forget Mum
. But her mother was long dead, and in recent weeks, after all she and her family had been through, Robyn had come to appreciate three things: first, that life was short and time precious – you had to live and love to your fullest while you could. Second, that Niko cared fiercely not just for Roland Ballantyne but also for the people he cared for; together they were a good team. The third thing was in some ways the strangest but the most satisfying: Robyn felt that she had learned to live up to her family’s name. Her dad had a special book, penned by various generations of Ballantynes going all the way back to the eighteenth century. The book was called 
The Adventurists
, and it showed that the Ballantyne ancestors had never lived dull, safe lives. They had struck out as pioneers and explorers in search of gold and glory and raised all kinds of hell across the decades. 
And now Ralph and me, we’re doing the same
, thought Robyn. 
We have to make it back home alive and damn well tell our story too.


Grant turned the door handle and the heavy door hissed as it opened, as if in anticipation. The cold atmosphere made Robyn shiver, for more than one reason, but she shook it off and boldly led the way through the examination room to the holding pens. ‘I’m back,’ she whispered as she approached the woolly rhinoceros calf’s pen. He almost filled it, breathing shallowly. He was the size of a small pony, with thick stubby legs and a huge hump stretching from his shoulder into his back. He was covered in coarse reddish fur that did little to hide the multiple cuts and contusions across his body. Robyn sighed at the sight of the animal’s broken horn; panicked and angry, the predasaur had injured himself while charging at Ralph yesterday. She’d managed to calm the rhino down and perform some first aid once she and Yonker had returned him to the pens.


Robyn’s heart went out to him. This evolutionary throwback had been used, manipulated, 
controlled
 by Gerhard. The man was a genius in his own sick way, learning to control the predasaurs with evil precision. For all the hurt he’d inflicted on animals, she hated him more than she would have thought she could hate another person.


‘You’ve done well, cleaning up his cuts and bruises,’ said Niko, studying the rhino’s injuries. ‘Nice work with the plastic sutures.’


The rhino’s eyes snapped open and he stirred uneasily. Grant jumped and recoiled but Robyn instinctively reached through the bars of the cage to comfort the creature.


‘Careful,’ said Grant, ‘it’s still a predasaur.’


‘This one is different,’ said Robyn. ‘Look at his eyes.’


‘Sort of milky pink,’ Niko observed. ‘Not red like regular predasaurs.’


‘I saw that before,’ said Robyn. ‘I looked into his eyes, and I reached him. I connected. I know I did. Whatever Gerhard does to the predasaurs to close off their souls, it didn’t take with this one.’


‘The red in their eyes might be from broken blood vessels?’ Grant suggested.


‘Or from vasodilation,’ said Niko. ‘That’s when the blood vessels dilate to increase blood flow, allowing white blood cells and antibodies to get to a site of damage.’ She paused, took a shaky breath. ‘We know Gerhard’s team have bred the predasaurs to be in constant physical pain. Pain that can never be healed. It’s no wonder they’re so aggressive.’


‘But this one’s special.’ Robyn pressed up against the bars, closer to the woolly rhino. ‘It’s like . . . he’s still got a soul.’ She slowed her breathing, matching the beast’s own rhythm, reading the rhino’s stress and discomfort in the tremors of his muscles, and brushed her fingertips against his fur. Robyn knew that rhinoceros skin was sensitive, even though it was thick. She murmured gently to the beast and he relaxed, his eyes drooping shut.


She felt a wave of homesickness and sadness – the connection between her and the woolly rhino reminded her so vividly of the bond she shared with the young lions Jari and Sabal, back at Crocodile Lodge.


‘You’re doing a good job,’ said Niko. ‘I’ll see if I can find any food for him.’ She moved off further into the holding pens, leaving Robyn and Grant alone.


‘Look at poor little Tanky there,’ Grant murmured, behind her. ‘You’ve clearly got a way with extinct rhinos.’


‘It’s a gift,’ Robyn said wryly. ‘Wait. Tanky?’


Grant nodded and put a hand lightly on her shoulder. ‘As in, like a tank. Good name for him, right? I mean, he’s built like one.’


Suddenly Niko cried out.


Robyn jumped up and Grant was behind her in a second to see what was wrong. Niko was pointing to a large glass aquarium reinforced with hefty steel bands. Inside was a colossal crustacean, heavily armoured, with vicious claws, segmented limbs, and a tail that ended with a long, barbed telson. It looked as big as a full‑grown man.


‘What the hell is that?’ Grant whispered, as if scared the thing could hear him.


‘Looks like a sea scorpion,’ said Robyn. ‘Another extinct animal.’


‘It’s incredible,’ said Niko, and she looked both awed and disgusted. ‘Sorry to scare you; seeing it just took me by surprise.’


‘Wonder what Gerhard was planning for it,’ said Grant.


‘He’s been trying to control land animals,’ Robyn pointed out. ‘Makes sense he’d want something deadly in the water too.’


Grant shuddered. But Niko, efficient as ever, had turned to the shelves stacked with bags of feed. ‘There’s herbivore pellets,’ she reported. ‘And some dried grass we can use as bedding . . . together with stuff to clean him out with.’


‘Let’s give Ralph that job,’ said Robyn, forcing a smile.


‘Tanky will need milk as well, won’t he?’ said Grant, finally looking away from the aquatic tank. ‘There’s a bucket with a teat attached by his pen.’


Niko peered at some boxes. ‘There’s powdered milk formula, but it’s for foals. Horses and zebras, I suppose.’


‘He doesn’t look too fussy,’ said Grant.


‘I’ll take the locking clamps off the pen’s wheels,’ said Robyn. ‘We’ll have to get Tanky into the freight lift, along with as much food and drink as we can manage.’


‘We’ll need Ralph and Luke’s help to get him up the ramp and into his trailer,’ Grant observed.


‘The full five‑star treatment,’ said Niko. ‘I’ll go and call the lift. Check it’s ready to receive our precious little bundle.’ She looked between them and smiled. ‘You two can sort out everything else between you, can’t you?’


As Niko walked away, Robyn felt Grant’s eyes on her, but she didn’t meet his gaze. Instead, she focused on preparing the rhino’s cage for movement.


‘I hope the truck comes with room for half a ton of hay bales,’ Grant said lightly, loading up a trolley. ‘I don’t fancy sharing Tanky’s pen.’


Robyn bit her lip, wondering what was happening above ground. ‘I just hope the truck comes,’ she muttered.


OceanofPDF.com













4


Ralph tensed as the lift up to the surface jolted to a halt and the low hum of its machinery ceased. He was surprised by how unhappy he was to be leaving the sterile corridors and fluorescent lights of the scientific compound for the raw earthiness of the mine workings above.


From the outside, Gerhard’s facility looked like an unassuming wooden building in the centre of a sprawling mine site. Inside, concrete and steel reinforced the timber shell and a secret lift led to underground labs and holding pens. With Gerhard overcome, their prison had become a temporary haven of sorts: a place of passing through, somewhere to rest before facing up to the full reality of their plight.


But that feeling of safety had ended with the blare of the security alarm. 
We’re still in this up to our necks
, thought Ralph, watching his dad and Xai exchange glances that held both anticipation and dread. His hand instinctively moved to the grip of his holstered revolver, a gift from Gerhard’s armoury, entrusted to him by his dad. He was used to target shooting, but the cold weight of the gun against his thigh made him feel sick. What if he had to use it in defence? Could he?


‘Promise me you’ll be careful with that thing,’ Luke muttered. He wasn’t carrying. Ralph could hardly blame him. Last time Luke had fired a gun, it had jammed and gone off in his face; he still bore the scars. Before this whole thing started, no way would Roland Ballantyne have allowed his son to step out into danger with a loaded gun.


But these are extraordinary times
, Ralph thought. 
Times meant for adventurists
.


The lift doors rattled open. Cautiously, Ralph followed his father out into the stale air of the miners’ long‑abandoned cafeteria. The whole place seemed deserted. To help maintain that illusion, the trucks used to transport predasaurs and prey alike had been parked out of sight in the mouth of an old mine tunnel. Exploring with his father and Yonker the day before, Ralph found that the tunnel could be accessed from a short passage excavated from the ground between the cafeteria and the mined‑out seam.


Roland Ballantyne led the way across the cafeteria, unbolting its heavy wooden door and heaving it open. The hinges creaked, a low growl of protest, and cold, stale air wafted from the darkness. A motion sensor in the tunnel activated and light bulbs in the rocky ceiling flickered on. The mine shaft stretched out before them, its walls marked by untold years of labouring workers.


Xai led the way into the mine, the beam of his flashlight cutting through the darkness like a sword. Roland followed him in silence, his eyes sharp and vigilant, carrying himself with the grace of a big cat ready to strike. Ralph and Luke cautiously followed them.


Every step sent a shiver of anticipation down Ralph’s spine. The old walls seemed to close in around them, as if trying to stop their progress. Drops of water fell like distant whispers from long‑ago times.


Suddenly, a sound, faint but unmistakable, reached Ralph’s ears – the shuffle of boots on gravel. Roland and Xai must’ve heard it too as they froze, every muscle taut.


Just an animal
, Ralph told himself, but he knew it wasn’t true. The enemy was near – already! Roland looked back at Ralph and Luke and gestured for them to retreat down the tunnel.


But then a voice, rough and commanding, sounded from the darkness ahead of them. ‘No one move.’


Luke swore under his breath. Roland and Xai brought up their guns.


‘Give it up, Ballantyne!’ the voice ordered. ‘There’s no escape for you.’


The words reverberated down the passage.


Roland exchanged a quick, knowing glance with Xai. Ralph knew what it meant: surrender was no option. He drew his own gun.


As if on cue, the enemy emerged from the shadows – a squad of heavily armed soldiers, their faces obscured by the darkness and the glint of their weapons.


‘Black ops,’ Roland muttered, and Xai nodded.


Ralph’s heart pounded in his chest, but his grip on his pistol remained steady.


The first shots rang out, a volley of gunfire that shattered the air and ignited the mine with flashes of light. Terrified, Ralph grabbed Luke and pushed him to the ground, while Roland and Xai crouched behind timber supports with choreographed precision. As they returned fire, the echoes of gunfire mingled with the metallic clatter of spent casings hitting the ground.


Roland looked across at Ralph in the half‑light and mouthed, ‘
Get out!
’


‘We’ve got to warn the others,’ Ralph hissed in Luke’s ear. ‘Come on.’ He crawled away, Luke beside him. Bullets whizzed past, kicking up dirt and stone. The acrid scent of gunpowder hung in the air. Time seemed to warp, seconds stretching into eternities until a shaft of daylight told Ralph that they’d reached the doorway to the old cafeteria. He scrambled up and ran into the still‑open lift. But Luke ran past, making for the door.


‘What are you doing?’ Ralph hissed.


‘Checking escape paths!’ Luke opened the door slightly, then stopped and slammed it shut again. ‘More soldiers,’ he reported. ‘Headed this way.’


‘Come 
on
!’ Ralph shouted, jabbing his finger against the bottom‑floor button. Luke ran across and threw himself inside the lift as the doors started to slide shut.


Ralph caught Luke and steadied him against the steel wall as the lift began to descend. ‘Those soldiers must be making for the other end of the tunnel so they can trap Dad and Xai in the middle. Classic pincer movement.’


‘Or else they know about this lift and they’re on their way to spring Gerhard.’ Luke shook his head. ‘We can’t let that happen.’


‘We won’t,’ Ralph said, bunching his fists as the lift doors opened. He pushed through them and hit the Talk button on the intercom panel. ‘Rob, Grant, Niko – Mbato’s troops are on their way. We couldn’t reach the transporter through the tunnel. They’ll be coming down here, shooting to kill. We have to cut our losses – leave the rhino, take the freight lift and get out. We’ll come after you with Gerhard.’


There was no talkback circuit on the intercom. Ralph wondered if his message had been heard. Maybe Robyn and the others had already gone?


Luke broke in on his thoughts. ‘What if the troops have that exit covered too?’


Ralph glared at him. ‘Pray that they haven’t.’


‘We’re the prey,’ Luke muttered. ‘It won’t take those troops long to find the emergency staircase and come down here after us.’


Ralph nodded. ‘Let’s grab Gerhard and go.’


 


In the examination room, Grant felt cold as Ralph’s voice cut over the intercom. He looked at Robyn. Robyn looked at Tanky.


‘We can’t leave him,’ she said firmly. ‘He’s our most solid evidence, and he doesn’t deserve to be left here.’


Grant stared. ‘You heard Ralph – there’s no transporter. What are we gonna do, walk him on a rope?’


‘I think we should take the rhino too,’ said Niko.


‘Thanks.’ Robyn looked at her gratefully. ‘Now I just need to sort one more thing . . .’ She quickly returned to the store area.


Watching Robyn go, Niko lowered her voice. ‘If nothing else,’ she told Grant, ‘he’s cover for us. If there are troops waiting for us up there, I’d sooner be hiding behind a predasaur, wouldn’t you?’


Grant felt revolted but understood the logic. A woolly rhino’s hide had to be incredibly thick. And being brutally honest, in a life‑and‑death situation, he knew he’d sacrifice a predasaur’s life for his own.


For Robyn, he suspected it might be the other way around.


‘Well . . . I guess that if Tanky chases troops down as well as he chased Ralph down to the basement, we’ll be all right,’ Grant said with an optimism he didn’t feel. ‘D’you think we should try and slow down the troops if they’re coming here?’


‘Obstacles, you mean? Good thinking. So long as we don’t slow down Ralph and Luke too.’ Niko reached inside her belt and pulled out a weathered old revolver – a Colt Anaconda. ‘You shoot, don’t you?’ As Grant nodded, she continued. ‘Found this up above, dropped by a poacher, I guess. At long range I’m guessing you’re a better shot.’


Grant took the gun uneasily and checked the chamber. ‘Two rounds against an elite squad of troops,’ he muttered.


‘Two rounds and a rhino,’ Niko said, forcing a smile.


‘Yay.’ Grant slipped the gun into his pocket. ‘We could wish for better odds.’


‘We could wish for lots of things.’ Niko shrugged. ‘I’ll start loading the freight lift.’


Grant pushed through the door from the examination room, trying to think of delaying tactics that might be open to them. But his mind, like his fingers, kept straying to the cold weight of the handgun.


OceanofPDF.com













5


Ralph felt numb as he led Luke through the base corridors. The sound of a distant explosion was accompanied by a violent flickering of the lights and vibrations through the floor. Luke flinched.


Dad, Xai, where are you?
 Ralph thought. A part of him was certain they must be dead, but death had seemed certain so many times before and they’d always scraped through . . . 
It can’t all end here
, Ralph thought as he hurried towards Gerhard’s makeshift cell. 
It just can’t
.


Gerhard was smirking as Ralph unlocked the door.


‘Wondered how long it would take you to get here,’ he said. ‘I hear company is coming.’


‘And we’re going,’ said Ralph, passing Luke the gun while he untied the ropes binding Gerhard’s feet. ‘Don’t try anything.’


‘Why should I?’ Gerhard’s grey eyes glinted. ‘All I have to do is wait.’


‘Shut up,’ Luke snapped, pointing the gun at him.


‘Scared, huh?’ Gerhard pursed his lips and nodded. ‘I get that. You know, if you only pointed your gun at Ralph instead of me, and let me end this, you wouldn’t need to be scared.’


Ralph tugged the rope tighter on Gerhard’s wrists, making the man wince. ‘I said, don’t try anything.’


‘It wasn’t me who got you into all this, was it?’ Gerhard went on calmly, looking at Luke. ‘I saved your life, remember.’


‘You and Mbato were the ones who put it at risk!’ Ralph spluttered.


‘You helped me, and I won’t forget that,’ said Gerhard. ‘Help me again, Luke, and you won’t have to be afraid any more.’


Luke kept a tight grip on the gun. ‘The only time I’m not gonna be afraid, for myself or my family, is when you’re behind bars or dead,’ he said. ‘And one of those is a whole lot easier to pull off than the other.’


Ralph looked at the sudden steel in Luke’s gaze and realised with a chill that he and Robyn weren’t the only ones to have changed. ‘You’d better do as he says, Gerhard,’ he said quietly, dragging Gerhard to his feet, making double sure his wrists were still firmly tied. ‘Move with us. No tricks.’


‘None needed,’ Gerhard said, equally softly. ‘This’ll end soon enough. You’ll see.’


Ralph opened the door and listened out for the soldiers. Then he pushed his prisoner ahead of him. He wanted to believe that somehow they would be able to evade Mbato’s forces once again, but he had a horrible feeling that Gerhard was right.


 


Grant unscrewed the lid of a 25‑litre drum of liquid soap. He had already taken the brakes off the wheels of several empty pens and cages and arranged them in the examination bay, ready to block the corridor. When he heard footsteps ahead, he swore his heart stopped beating. But Ralph’s voice called: ‘Hello?’


‘Here,’ Grant replied. ‘We’ve not left yet.’


‘What?’ The exasperation in Ralph’s voice rang loud.


‘All right, we’re ready now,’ Robyn shot back impatiently. Grant felt his heart jolt at the sight of Gerhard, who was being herded by Ralph and Luke. He’d tried to avoid all contact with Gerhard since they’d won the battle for this base, but now he felt a sheer, helpless anger just looking at the man’s smug face. Gerhard had let predasaurs kill Grant’s mentor Dane Mellanby – a man he’d been closer to than his own father – so he could film the carnage for use in his 
Predasaur
 video game, and Mbato could rid himself of another political opponent. Grant knew that he’d been destined for the same fate, if it hadn’t been for Robyn and Ralph.


But with all they’d been through since . . . how much longer could their luck hold?


‘Taking out the trash, I see,’ Niko said to Ralph as he pushed Gerhard forward. She held out her hand for Luke to pass her the gun. Gerhard sniffed dismissively, and Niko jammed the gun up against his ribs. ‘Just know that if anything is going to happen to us, it’s going to happen to you first.’


‘So I understand,’ Gerhard said blandly. ‘Well? Shall we take the lift, meet Mbato’s latest black ops unit and get this over with?’


‘First things first.’ Robyn stepped out from the shadows of the feed store. ‘I’ve prepared you a cage. Get in.’


Grant felt a small thrill of victory at the anger that sparked on Gerhard’s face. ‘You’re not serious.’


‘See how you like it.’ Robyn gestured to a wheeled cage that might have been used for a lion, and Niko jabbed the barrel of the gun into his back. Gerhard hunched over as he entered and sat heavily on one of several bags of feed inside. Robyn slammed the door closed and slid the bolt into place.


Gerhard’s bulging eyes were the colour of the steel bars, his stare just as hard. ‘I won’t forget this,’ he said, as Robyn and Niko pushed the cage out through the doors and along the corridor.


‘Who could? This whole thing’s the experience of a lifetime,’ Grant muttered.


Ralph and Luke had quickly grasped Grant’s plans to delay Mbato’s forces. While Luke poured the liquid soap over the floor, Ralph wrestled a pen into place, jamming it between the wall and another cage, pressing down the wheel‑brakes. Grant helped him, the three of them retreating slowly down the corridor as they worked, back towards the examination room.


‘Targets sighted!’ came a hoarse shout from ahead.


‘Run!’ Grant yelled, throwing down the plastic barrel of liquid soap. The contents fountained across the floor. As he turned, the rattle of automatic weapons broke out. Grant heard bullets ching and zip off the metal skeletons of the pens and cages, and dived through the door ahead of him. Ralph and Luke followed, fast as missiles, and Grant kicked the door shut. Ralph turned the lock, then jumped back as the door shook under multiple impacts.


‘Move!’ Grant shouted, scrambling up and chasing his friends. ‘That junk won’t slow them down for long.’


They turned the corner into the feed store and the freight area beyond. Grant saw Niko and Robyn shoving Gerhard’s cage into the rusting metal lift. Tanky gave a snorting roar, pawing the floor of his pen. A trolley full of feed and water stood waiting to be loaded. Luke and Ralph started to push it towards the lift.


‘Leave it!’ Niko shouted.


‘We need it,’ Robyn insisted. ‘Without water we won’t survive anyway.’


‘Wait.’ Grant grabbed a hefty bag of food pellets from the trolley.


Ralph stared at him. ‘Hungry?’


‘Desperate.’ Grant heard the slam of boots on metal as the troops set about the door to the examination room. ‘One last delaying tactic. Get going.’


Ralph hesitated. But Luke was already struggling with the weight of the trolley. Ralph helped him, pursuing a zigzag course towards the open lift. Robyn raced back out to help them but stopped to see Grant poised at the turn in the corridor.


‘What are you doing?’ she cried.


‘I’m not sacrificing myself, don’t worry. Just get that stuff in the lift.’ Grant stood sweating, his heart batting off his ribs. Cocking the safety, he held his revolver against the bag of feed, wondering if his plan would work or quite literally backfire.


There was a muffled 
CRUMP!
 as explosive charges took down the door. Commands were shouted and boots clattered on the floor. Grant bit his lip, raised the bag of feed in front of him, and with a deep breath he stepped out to face the oncoming troops – four of them – and fired the revolver into the thick paper of the feed bag. The hard pellets of food exploded outward like shrapnel. Instinctively, the soldiers threw themselves to the floor.


Grant turned and sprinted for the lift, all but taking off with adrenaline. Niko and Robyn were already starting to haul closed the concertinaed door of the freight lift.


‘Faster!’ Robyn screamed.


‘Stop him!’ came a throaty shout behind him.


As he ran, Grant heard the click of a safety catch releasing. There was too much ground left to cover.


I’m dead
, he thought.


Braced for the killing impact, Grant saw Ralph suddenly lean out from the half‑closed door of the lift and fire his own gun, aiming high. Risking a glance back, Grant saw a soldier falling to the ground – not hit but rolling athletically for cover.


Ralph fired again. This time the aquarium shattered noisily and the sea scorpion inside was washed out on a tide of dark water. As Grant flew into the lift and fell into Robyn’s arms, he heard the soldier scream. And before the lift door clanged shut, he glimpsed the soldier tearing at the scorpion’s huge, dark pincers, trying to free himself, his throat running crimson.


Feeling sick, Grant closed his eyes as the lift began to rise and clung to Robyn as she held him close. ‘It’s OK,’ she whispered soothingly.


‘I never meant to hit that tank,’ Ralph said, lowering his gun. ‘Never even saw it. What was that thing?’


‘My singular example of 
Acutiramus bohemicus
 – a sea scorpion from the early Devonian age. The only one to survive resurrection using genetic materials from four hundred million years ago.’ Gerhard’s eyes drilled into Ralph’s. ‘Dead, thanks to you. Still, no matter. It had already made its contribution to my work.’


‘Well, that’s all right then,’ Grant sneered. ‘We happen to think that all life matters.’


Gerhard smiled coldly. ‘Then you really shouldn’t have got caught up in this, should you?’


As the lift slowed its ascent, Robyn surveyed its solid steel door. ‘No windows. No way of knowing what’s on the other side.’


The lift juddered to a stop. Ralph stepped forward, gripping the heavy handle. ‘If we just open it a crack, maybe –’


Then Ralph jerked and fell as the door was wrenched open from the other side. Niko cried out as the muzzle of a Vektor R4 thrust into the space and struck her collarbone. As the door was pulled fully open by two soldiers, a third, with an assault rifle, shoved Grant back against Tanky’s cage. He gasped as the iron bars bit into his spine, and Tanky gave a throaty squeal. Luke dropped to his knees, hands raised, while Robyn stood frozen.


‘On the floor!’ the soldier shouted. ‘All of you!’ One of the soldiers grabbed Robyn by the arm and forced her down.


‘About time,’ Gerhard snapped. ‘Now get me the hell out of this cage –’


Before he had finished, a shot rang out and the soldier standing over Robyn threw her arms up, her back arching. In an instant, the other two soldiers swung around, guns raised. One fell as another shot echoed, dropping their Vektor to clutch at their blood‑soaked thigh. The third managed to fire several rounds at the unseen sniper, but Ralph scissored his legs around the soldier’s calves and brought her to the ground. Grant lunged for her rifle, trying to twist it from her grip. But Robyn had already snatched the Vektor from the soldier shot in the back and now held it in both hands.


‘Hold still, everyone!’ she yelled, over the snorts and whimpers of the woolly rhino. ‘Don’t make me use this.’


Gerhard slammed his palm against the floor of his cage in frustration, while Grant pulled the gun from the second soldier’s hands and Ralph collected the other.


‘Who’s out there?’ Luke hissed.


‘Please, God, let it be Dad,’ Ralph said.


In fact, it was Xai who came running from behind the cover of a nearby outbuilding, holding a sniper rifle. 
A Truvelo CMS
, Grant realised. 
So,
 he 
took down that first soldier
. Xai’s face and shirt were covered in blood, but from the ease of his movements, Grant guessed it was someone else’s.


‘Thank goodness,’ Niko began, starting forward. But Xai held up a hand to warn her back and beckoned urgently to his right. Grant heard an engine gun to life and then a large, armoured truck rumbled from around the corner – a modified Casspir with a trailer attached to the rear. It pulled up outside the lift area and a familiar figure pushed his head up through the inspection hatch.


‘Dad!’ Robyn shouted.


Roland Ballantyne looked out, assessing the situation in a couple of expert glances. ‘Good work, everyone.’


Ralph stepped forward. ‘You all right, Dad?’


‘Bad day at the office,’ said Roland. ‘But we made it through.’


Niko had stooped to examine the soldier shot in the back. ‘She’s dead,’ she said.


‘I could take no chances,’ Xai said sadly. ‘Not with your own lives in jeopardy.’


‘Better her than us, I guess,’ Luke muttered, eying the blood pooling from the second soldier’s thigh.


Grant nodded shakily. ‘Can we stop that one bleeding out?’


‘The bullet’s passed straight through,’ Niko reported. ‘He’ll be all right.’


Xai pulled a first‑aid pouch from the soldier’s body armour. He tossed a field dressing to Niko and pulled out an auto‑injector which he placed against the man’s shoulder. ‘Morphine,’ he muttered.


‘That will stop the pain.’ Niko quickly applied the TraumaFix dressing to the man’s thigh. ‘You can use it to knock out that one, too.’ She nodded towards where the third soldier lay on the floor.


‘Look,’ said Robyn urgently. ‘Tanky’s hurt as well.’


Grant saw blood staining the fur on the woolly rhino’s back. ‘Must have caught a bullet,’ he realised.


‘But he’s our proof!’ Luke said.


‘He’s a living thing,’ Robyn snapped. ‘Niko, is it bad?’


Niko walked over to Tanky’s cage and examined him as best she could through the bars. ‘I think there’s a bullet lodged in his hide. Looks like it ricocheted or it would’ve gone deeper.’ She straightened. ‘Some morphine will help his pain too. Then we need to get that bullet out or the wound might get infected.’


The third soldier gritted her teeth as Xai wrenched her own first‑aid pouch from her armour. ‘You’ll have to be quick,’ the soldier hissed as he pressed an injector to the soldier’s deltoid muscle. ‘Zuma’s coming . . .’ Her head lolled back as the strong analgesic took effect. Roland climbed down from the armoured vehicle to join them.


‘So.’ Xai handed Niko the second morphine injector from the kit and looked gravely up at Roland. ‘Zuma’s after us now.’


‘You don’t look ecstatic about it,’ Ralph said. ‘Who or what is Zuma?’


‘I’ve heard her described as a machine more than once,’ Roland said. ‘Only know her by reputation: Captain Namazzi Zuma.’


‘She’s in charge of our old regiment now, based out of Phalaborwa,’ Xai added. ‘She didn’t so much rise up through the ranks as smash them apart.’


‘So, this Zuma’s bad news?’ said Robyn quietly.


‘She’s a soldier to the core. It’s time we got loaded up and moved out,’ Roland said briskly. ‘Little rogue –’


‘I can fetch the other transport,’ said Xai, smiling at Roland’s use of his nickname, given fondly in battle and adopted as a badge of honour. ‘We shouldn’t take too long.’


Grant nodded. ‘Those troops who almost nailed us in the examination room must surely be headed back up here.’


‘What’s the 
other
 transport?’ asked Niko, as she pushed the injector hard into Tanky’s hide.


‘A pickup. For transporting smaller animals,’ Roland explained. ‘In light of all this, I think it’s best if we split up. The rhino is our best proof of Gerhard’s involvement, so we need to treat him. Niko, you, me and Robyn will take him back to Crocodile Lodge.’


Robyn nodded. ‘We can take care of him there, in the recovery pens.’


‘There’ll be vet stuff at Gerhard’s too,’ said Ralph. ‘More predasaurs as well, if we need them. Can’t we all stay together and follow the original plan?’


‘With Zuma on our tails, we can’t afford to keep all our eggs in one basket, and travelling in two groups is safer,’ Roland said grimly.


‘What if home’s under surveillance?’ asked Ralph. ‘What if they’re waiting for us to show up there?’


‘It’s possible. But we’ve been on the run for weeks and the authorities are policing a pandemic, curfews, all of that. Mbato can’t have the resources to stake out Croc Lodge continuously just in case we turn up.’


Robyn nodded. ‘Suppose we don’t have any safe options, whatever we do.’


‘It goes without saying, we’ll stay on our guard at all times,’ said Roland. ‘Xai, are you good to take Gerhard to his reserve with Ralph and Luke?’


Xai nodded. ‘We’ll deal with the comms blackout.’


‘And look for proof of Mbato’s involvement there too,’ Ralph said.


‘Good luck, little rogue.’ Roland put a hand on Xai’s shoulder. ‘Once comms are restored, we’ll get straight on to Max Khumalo.’


‘And can we call you?’ Ralph asked.


‘Best not to from Gerhard’s,’ said Roland. ‘Calls and numbers will be logged there, might give Zuma a way to track us. No, keep radio silence and meet us at Crocodile Lodge as quick as you can – preferably with a ton of evidence against Mbato. OK, let’s move.’


‘Got it,’ said Xai. ‘Catch up soon.’


Grant was already helping Robyn manhandle Tanky’s pen out of the lift, the rhino cringing from Gerhard as though afraid of him. Roland stood aside for them, then placed his face close to Gerhard’s cage. ‘You must have thought you were home free, Josef,’ he said. ‘Sorry.’


‘Sorry?’ Gerhard didn’t look at Roland, instead gazing into the distance. ‘In time, Ballantyne . . . you will be.’


OceanofPDF.com













6


Ralph sat in the back of the pickup as Xai steered expertly over the rough terrain at speed. He skirted thickets of mopane and red bushwillow, the dry, dusty grass crunching beneath the truck’s wheels. The last time they’d taken this route they’d been crawling, desperate to evade attention. Now the race was on to reach Gerhard’s private complex in his game reserve before Mbato’s forces could regroup and track them down again. Ralph shuddered as he pictured a helicopter gunship dropping out of the sky, soldiers swarming down on droplines, their small party overrun in an instant.


Xai had been driving for nearly fourteen hours, with only the briefest of stops to top up the fuel tank from a caddy, and no time to recover from the firefight in the tunnel. He and Roland had put their survival down to a combination of long experience and small miracles; Ralph supposed that the seasoned soldiers’ time in the Recces had prepared them for all manner of ordeals, but how long would it be before they were located and attacked again? Mbato’s black ops forces would be alert and rested and, after what had befallen their comrades in the assault on the complex, hungry for vengeance. Horrid images of what might happen next mixed with memories of that colossal scorpion . . . the way it had attacked the soldier the moment it was out of the tank . . .


Feeling the familiar sense of panic balling in his gut once more, Ralph took some deep breaths, sucking the air in through his nose so his stomach rose, then puffing the air out through his mouth. He tried focusing on the bumping horizon.


‘You see something out there?’ Luke asked anxiously.


‘No,’ Ralph reassured him. ‘And that’s mostly the point.’


‘Huh?’


‘When you get stressed or scared, and your body goes into fight‑or‑flight mode, your focus tends to shrink to just one thing. If you widen that focus by staring at nothing, it helps to soothe your brain.’


‘Listening to you explain crap like that soothes me to sleep,’ Luke said gruffly.


‘You wish,’ Ralph shot back with a smile. ‘None of us have slept in an age.’


‘Life’s just too exciting.’ Luke slumped back against the cracked leather of the rear seat. ‘When I close my eyes, I keep seeing that soldier getting shot right in front of us –’


Ralph understood all too well. ‘Horizon,’ he told Luke gently.


The truck rocked on. Xai was still leaning forward in the front seat, his turns of the wheel precise.


‘Xai, are you OK?’ Ralph asked. ‘Do you need a break? I could take over –’


‘I’m good,’ Xai said. ‘I promised your dad I’d get you to Gerhard’s in one piece, and that’s what I’ll do.’


Ralph nodded grimly and thought of his dad. He knew that Roland Ballantyne would be feeling the weight of responsibility just as heavily as Xai, as he drove Robyn, Grant, Niko and the juvenile rhino back to Crocodile Lodge in the Casspir.


Back home.


He felt a stab of envy at the thought of being back on familiar ground. The idea of home still felt safe, but Ralph reminded himself that there was no such thing for the Ballantynes: not any longer.


Besides his dad was right: splitting up would double their chances of getting – and keeping – the proof they needed that Gerhard had unleashed the virus with his predasaur experiments, and Mbato was in on it too. There had to be files at Gerhard’s reserve that would prove that beyond question, and Tanky, with his Gerhard Industries tracking chip, was the most damning evidence – if they could keep the rhino alive long enough to get him to the right people. And if they couldn’t, maybe they could find another predasaur at Gerhard’s complex?


He glanced out the back of the pickup, where the cage holding Gerhard was wedged tightly in place, half‑hidden by a tarp to provide some shelter from the sun. Ralph was glad not to have him inside the truck with them, but it felt a bit like taking your eyes off a venomous spider. While you watched it, you knew where it was, and which way to run. If you took your eyes off it, it could be preparing to jump onto your back, ready to bite.


Gerhard can’t get out through solid bars
, Ralph reminded himself. But then he thought of the way Tanky had recoiled from the man, and wondered if all living things shared the same uneasy feeling about him.


Time crawled. Luke, despite his protests, actually slept for a bit, head lolling and jaw slack. At the sixteen‑hour point, finding cover under the spreading dark green canopy of a copse of jackalberry trees, Xai allowed himself a catnap, falling asleep immediately and waking twenty minutes later with a preternatural promptness. Then on they went, the hours melting slowly and stickily around them.


‘Xai, you’ve been driving for nearly twenty‑four hours,’ Ralph protested.


‘Yeah, I feel tortured enough without the extra guilt you’re piling on,’ Luke joked. ‘I’ll drive. He’ll drive. Better yet, make Gerhard take a turn – it’s his place.’


Xai slowed the truck to a stop and turned to face them, his grim smile stopping short of his bloodshot eyes. ‘That’s exactly what I’m going to do.’


Ralph frowned. ‘Excuse me?’


‘Luke called it. This is Gerhard’s place. There’s a track up ahead – must be an approach road to one of the entrances. If there are guards on duty, and we look like we’re trussed up in the back seat, then they should buy the idea that their boss is bringing us in.’


‘Seriously?’ Luke snorted. ‘Bruh, you can’t trust Gerhard to play along.’


‘He’ll have my gun in his back,’ Xai said.


‘Guess we can’t keep Gerhard caged up in the back,’ Ralph reflected. ‘One shout from him and everything’s blown. But what if I go behind Gerhard and you swap places with him, Xai, hiding under the tarp, totally undercover?’


Luke nodded slowly. ‘If things go south with Gerhard and his goons, you could launch a counter‑attack or whatever.’


Xai considered it. ‘The plan is sound,’ he conceded. ‘But Ralph – would Gerhard believe you’d use the gun on him?’


‘After what he did to me,’ said Luke, ‘he’d better believe that 
I
 would.’


The plan was put into action. Against all odds, Ralph found he felt an actual twinge of pity for Gerhard as the man emerged from his cage, nursing his cramped limbs. He looked shabby and unkempt, straw sticking to his sweat‑stained clothes, and he stank; he was a thousand miles from the well‑groomed tech baron of old. Gerhard listened as Xai told him quietly and persuasively what to do, then he looked at Ralph and Luke.


‘You sure you want to go through with this?’ he asked. ‘You’re taking a hell of a risk trying to break in here. Maybe we should follow Roland and Robyn to Crocodile Lodge. I’d love for you to see what’s going to happen to them.’


‘Shut up,’ Ralph said. ‘You’re bluffing.’


Gerhard bared his teeth. ‘They’re dying!’ he hissed.


Ralph tried not to react, but his confidence was dribbling away. ‘Bull.’


‘I’ve convinced the world that you Ballantynes are monster‑makers, remember?’ Gerhard was still smiling. ‘Think I wouldn’t leave some evidence behind, to be discovered at the right moment?’


‘That’s enough. Don’t let him inside your head, Ralph. If anything is there, your dad can handle it.’ Xai pulled out his revolver and pushed the gun into the back of Gerhard’s neck. ‘Now, move. Time we swapped places. And remember, this is a four‑eighty‑calibre Ruger Super Blackhawk. I can fire through the rear window and the headrest and you’ll still lose the back of your brain.’ He handed Gerhard the keys. ‘Try anything, Gerhard – anything at all – and you’re dead.’


‘How poetic.’ Gerhard slid carefully into the driver’s seat. ‘I think you’ll find the cage to your liking, Xai. Enjoy.’


Feeling uneasy, Ralph got into the back seat with Luke while Xai climbed into the back of the truck. Gerhard’s body odour caught in Ralph’s nostrils. ‘We’ll act unconscious,’ he said. ‘But I’ll be holding the gun to the back of this seat, Gerhard.’


‘I’m sure,’ Gerhard said, as he started the truck and began to drive towards the approach road. ‘Please be careful. I won’t try anything.’


‘That’d be a first,’ said Luke.


‘You have no objection to our taking the quickest way inside, do you?’ Gerhard asked.


Peeping through the truck’s side window, Ralph saw that the chain‑link fence that ringed the perimeter of Gerhard’s complex had been blown open. One section had been reduced to a spiky tangle of blackened wire framing a massive hole.


‘We didn’t do that when we escaped,’ Ralph said. ‘We came out further north, away from the road.’


‘I’m afraid my own staff are to blame.’ Gerhard sounded regretful. ‘The incident with the sarcosuchus, combined with the urban spread of the pandemic, led to something of a mutiny.’


Ralph raised his eyebrows. ‘Your rangers blew their way out?’


‘I remember people threatening to bail, back when I was held here,’ Luke jeered. ‘Ha! You couldn’t stop your own people walking out.’


‘Mbato had them . . . 
contained
 upon their entry to Pretoria,’ Gerhard said smoothly. ‘Can’t have loose tongues wagging. But, regrettably, their leaving has compromised security here.’


‘Regrettably for you,’ Ralph said.


The truck rolled on. The gun sat sweatily in Ralph’s grip. He thought, 
If I had to shoot Gerhard, could I? That would make me as bad as the monster the media’s making me out to be. Bring me down to Gerhard’s level. Ruin my life
 –


‘We’re in,’ Luke hissed.


Gerhard drove the truck slowly but steadily over the rough ground. The ride was smoother once they’d rejoined the ribbon of asphalt trailing through the terrain, the single mark of civilisation. It led, eventually, to a sturdy metal gate between a white concrete building on one side and a steep rise of bushland on the other, with scattered trees and boulders, that swept away to the east – a natural fortification. Beyond that was the main complex, a collection of modern buildings at odds with their wild surroundings.


‘Checkpoint,’ Gerhard announced, slowing the vehicle. ‘No guards. Which means, I’m afraid, no one to raise the barrier and let us in.’


‘There’s some kind of keypad on the wall,’ Luke said, sitting up. ‘You must know the entry code?’


‘I don’t need to know it,’ said Gerhard dismissively. ‘This is the goods entrance. I usually arrive and leave by helicopter.’


Ralph believed that. He looked at Luke. ‘You’re our tech whizz and heir to the VanRok Security business. Anything you can do to get us in?’


‘Maybe,’ Luke said.


Ralph checked again that the area was clear. He could see no one and nothing – the complex seemed abandoned, the landscape uncannily still beneath the sun. He opened the car door and stepped out, half‑convinced he would be mown down by bullets the next second. But the silence, disturbed only by the mournful call of distant birds, lay over the checkpoint like a smothering blanket.


Ralph quickly brought Xai up to speed on the state of play. ‘We’re going to see if we can get inside.’


‘I’ll keep you covered,’ Xai promised. ‘Take Gerhard with you. Keep him in my line of sight. Make sure he knows I’ll shoot him at the first sign of an ambush.’


‘He knows,’ Gerhard said, opening the door of the truck and squinting in the bright sunlight. ‘Let’s just get this over with. I want cool shade and refreshments just as badly as you do.’


‘So, help us find the evidence we need to prove that the predasaurs and the virus are all down to you, and that your old pal Mbato is in on it too,’ Ralph said. ‘Then maybe you’ll get something.’


‘Yeah, I hear prison canteens serve a great glass of water,’ Luke added.


Ralph and Luke marched Gerhard over to the gatehouse. The door was locked, but Ralph peered through the window. The room inside was empty apart from a chair, a table and a bank of computer screens. He saw a large green button on the wall which must surely open the gate when the gatehouse was manned.


Glancing at the keypad, he frowned. ‘It’s blank.’


‘LED keypads project the number keys in a random order,’ Luke explained. ‘So you can’t work out which digits are used from wear or dirt on the keys.’


Ralph swore under his breath. ‘We don’t have a hope of –’


‘
Ralph, Luke!
’ The sheer horror in Xai’s frantic shout was underlined by the crack of his revolver.


Ralph turned, and his gaze zeroed in on three nightmare forms tearing over the scrub towards them – massive predators from a million years ago, with long, curving fangs and muscular bodies, moving with a grace that defied their size.


Ralph’s voice came out as a croak. ‘Smilodons.’


Luke’s face screwed up like a baby’s before it cries. ‘Those things’ll tear us apart!’


OceanofPDF.com













7


Ralph couldn’t believe how fast the sabretooths could move. 
Gerhard doesn’t need security guards
, he realised. 
Not when his predasaurs are loose
. Xai fired again, and his second shot found its mark; one of the smilodons fell, its head jerking back as its body skidded in a cloud of dust. But as if spurred on by its demise, the two others pounded forward still faster.


‘I’m out of ammo!’ Xai shouted.


‘No!’ Luke shrieked in panic, his voice cracking. ‘Not again. Please!’


Gerhard easily broke Luke’s grip and shoved him back against the bonnet of the truck. Then he pushed past Ralph and started to run for the steep rise.


Damn it
, thought Ralph. 
With Xai out of ammo, he thinks he’s got nothing to lose!


Ralph realised that, even if he’d had the stomach for the shot, by the time he had properly aimed the predasaurs would be on top of them.


‘Get in the truck!’ Ralph grabbed Luke, dragged him around to the still‑open passenger door and shoved him inside. The fastest smilodon was already skidding around the front of the truck: its fur was mottled with patches of tawny gold and obsidian, its narrowed eyes blood‑red. Ralph aimed his revolver and fired, but the smilodon dodged aside even as he pulled the trigger, and the bullet missed its mark.


Thunk!
 Ralph turned at the sound and saw that, in his panic, Luke had pulled the door shut.


As if sensing Ralph was distracted, the smilodon bounded towards him. Swearing, Ralph fired twice, wildly, then grabbed the wing mirror and used it to scramble onto the roof. The big cat snapped at his heels, clawing at the glass and metal of the truck in a frenzy. Ralph felt a claw hook his boot and start to pull him back down.


Then the passenger door was kicked open, slamming against the sabretooth’s ribcage, knocking it backwards. The beast lost its balance and fell. Ralph clung to the hot rusting metal, catching his breath. ‘Thanks, Luke,’ he panted.


‘Ralph?’ Luke called from inside. ‘What the hell do we do?’ He yanked the door closed again, and the smilodon yowled with primal rage.


‘Here, Ralph!’ Xai shouted. ‘Get inside the cage with me, it’ll protect you –’


He broke off as the other smilodon bounded into the back of the pickup. Ralph took careful aim with the gun this time, but the chamber turned with a hollow click. No rounds left. The beast tore savagely at the tarp covering the cage, then tried to reach through the bars with its claws. Xai recoiled and hugged his knees to his chest, keeping his limbs out of reach as best he could. Roaring in frustration, the creature beat its head against the bars, biting at them, drooling.


Suddenly there was a huge impact to the side of the truck. It lurched and Ralph nearly lost his balance, scrabbling to hold on to the roof. The other smilodon had charged the truck, denting its side – trying to shatter the glass, perhaps. As Ralph stared around, frantic, he saw Gerhard, halfway up the slope, lose his footing and slip back down on his front in a storm of dirt.


The smilodon menacing Xai managed to shift the heavy cage a few centimetres. It grew angrier, wilder. Ralph thanked God that the predasaur was so focused on the object of its rage that it didn’t see the easy prey perched helplessly on the roof. But the other smilodon had. Slowly it backed away, its red eyes fixed on him like laser sights, sun glinting on its curved ivory fangs. Ralph realised it was getting ready to jump.


With the smilodon still backing away for its lethal run‑up, Ralph swung himself off the roof on the other side of the truck. He landed with a gasp of pain and looked down to see his ankle soaked in blood. But the pain was a distant sensation, overshadowed by sheer terror as he tried to open the driver’s door and found it locked. In his panic, Luke must’ve hit the central locking.


‘Ralph, wait!’ Luke shouted.


Ralph saw him flail about inside for the switch. But there was no time to hesitate. He sprinted after Gerhard. 
If I’m going down
, he thought, 
that monster’s going down with me
.


Both smilodons were running after him now, their massive paws thundering on the ground. Ralph’s lungs burned with every desperate gasp for air, and his vision blurred. He could hear the guttural growls and snarls growing louder, the anticipation of the kill driving the smilodons on. But as he pushed his exhausted body to its limits, Ralph’s mind raced faster. Low down on the slope was an outcrop crowned with a massive boulder, partially obscured by hanging vegetation.


If he was lucky, he could climb onto it, while the big cats couldn’t. The smilodons would have to race up the slope then double back around to reach him – but first they’d find Gerhard, still climbing, in their path. With their focus on him, Ralph might stand a chance of getting away . . .


With a desperate surge of strength, Ralph lunged for the boulder and scrambled up its uneven surface, his limbs aching. The smilodons caught up a moment later, their claws scrabbling against the rock as they tried to scale it. Ralph’s heart pounded as he clung to a narrow ledge, praying that his pursuers would falter. One of them gave a mighty leap and managed to find purchase, its massive jaws snapping perilously close to Ralph’s feet.


With a burst of adrenaline, Ralph kicked at the predasaur’s snarling face and sent it tumbling back to the ground. Meanwhile, its mate was starting up the slope towards Gerhard.


Winded, shaking, watching as the second predasaur followed the first, Ralph couldn’t help but call out: ‘Gerhard, look out! They’re right behind you!’


Gerhard stopped and turned to look at Ralph, more in surprise than fear. As he did so, the smilodons closed the last few metres between them and him . . .


And then recoiled as if electrified, howling with pain, and tumbled back down the slope.


Ralph stared, astounded, as Gerhard continued to climb. It was as though the man was protected by an invisible barrier. Incredulous, Ralph picked up a rock and hurled it at Gerhard. No barrier – it struck him on the back of the head. With a surprised yelp, Gerhard clutched his head. But he lost his balance as he did so and slid back down again towards the snarling smilodons.


Oh my God
, Ralph thought, numb with horror. 
I’ve killed him
.


But again, as he skidded towards them, the sabretooths backed away, snarling and yowling, shaking their heavy heads.


‘It’s 
him
,’ Ralph whispered, remembering how the woolly rhino had whined when Gerhard had come close. ‘Something he’s carrying . . .’


As Gerhard got up, Ralph jumped down from the boulder, ran after him and tackled him to the ground. Gerhard struggled wildly, but Ralph managed to keep his grip, horribly aware that if his theory was wrong, they were both dead. The smilodons hissed and pawed the ground, edging closer. But when Ralph got his arm around Gerhard’s neck and twisted him around to face the beasts, again they cowered.


‘I should’ve known,’ Ralph hissed in Gerhard’s ear. ‘Someone like you, directing those things, you’d make extra‑sure they couldn’t harm you.’


Gerhard said nothing. He stopped struggling, looked beaten. Suspicious, Ralph only tightened his grip, and was proved right when Gerhard bucked and tried to get free again. Ralph rolled Gerhard over so his face was in the dirt.


‘What is it, a chip or something? Some signal the predasaurs can’t bear?’ Ralph noticed a small scar and a lump at the side of Gerhard’s neck and pressed his fingers to it. ‘I’m right, aren’t I? That’s an implant.’


Gerhard said nothing. The growl of the truck’s engine rose over the snarls of the sabretooths. Ralph saw that Xai had left the cage and taken the wheel once more, driving slowly towards Ralph and Gerhard. Distracted by this new, more tempting target, the sabretooths roared and rose as one. But when Ralph got up with Gerhard and forced him towards the truck, again the smilodons backed off.


Xai threw open the door, expertly swung Gerhard into an armlock and pushed him against the side of the truck while Ralph told him his suspicions.


‘Makes sense,’ said Xai. ‘You put electronics into everything else, stands to reason you’d do the same with your own skin – just to save it.’


Still Gerhard said nothing, but Ralph saw a smirk play over his hateful face. Despite everything, the man must still feel he was in control. The thought chilled Ralph to his bones, despite the pitiless heat. What else did he have up his sleeve?


‘Stay close, Ralph,’ Xai said, as he marched Gerhard around to the other side of the truck. ‘OK, Luke, it’s safe to get out.’


Luke emerged tentatively, like a newborn impala getting to its feet for the first time. He was ashen as he looked at Ralph. ‘I’m so sorry, man. Sorry I shut you out. It was like I was flashbacking to the cave hyenas, the way they took me down. I could feel it happening all over again . . .’


PTSD, Ralph realised. ‘It’s all right,’ he told Luke. ‘I get it. Just focus on the keypad, yeah? The smilodons won’t touch us with Gerhard here.’


Luke didn’t dare look at the beasts. He crossed to the keypad, Xai keeping Gerhard close by. ‘I don’t know how we can crack this,’ he said. ‘So many combinations –’


With sudden inspiration, Ralph shoved Gerhard up against the keypad. A green light responded, and the gate barrier whirred into life, rising into the air.


‘I don’t need to know the combination,’ Ralph said, mimicking Gerhard’s voice. ‘Because your chip knows it for you.’


Xai smiled grimly and nodded. ‘How could he bear to be shut out of his own territory?’


‘I wonder what else that chip unlocks,’ Luke said, looking past the raising barrier towards the complex beyond. ‘Maybe we can use it to cut through the satellite blackout. Maybe we can get to the raw footage for the 
Predasaur
 cut‑scenes . . .’


Ralph nodded. ‘And show the world who Gerhard and Mbato have killed on film.’


‘I wouldn’t bet on it,’ Gerhard breathed.


‘There is fear in his eyes,’ Xai said quietly. ‘This time, boys, I think we have him.’


His adrenaline was ebbing, but Ralph felt fresh strength returning to his body. ‘Shall we go see?’ he said.


OceanofPDF.com













8


For Robyn, the interior of the Casspir felt like a moving prison. In the rear compartment, two benches had been installed for the use of a crew of twelve soldiers, sitting side by side so they could look out of the three grilled windows set in the walls. Right now, it was just her and Grant, sitting back to back, while Niko accompanied Roland up in the cockpit. Roland was pushing the armoured vehicle hell for leather over the rough terrain, and Robyn felt a wave of nausea at each lurch.


They were travelling through a grassy valley with only occasional trees punctuating the view, mostly small proteas which could make the most of the poor soil, with their extensive root systems. It was too early for the proteas to begin their autumn flowering, but as they rattled past Robyn glimpsed the lumpy shape of early buds among leathery leaves at the end of long stems.


‘I get that we need to reach home as quickly as possible,’ Robyn said. ‘But do we have to go so fast?’


‘This thing can reach ninety kilometres an hour on a road,’ Grant informed her. ‘We’re actually going kind of slow.’


Robyn nudged him. ‘Maybe. But we’re towing a terrified woolly rhino!’


‘If Mbato’s troops catch up with us, we’ll all be dead.’ Grant got up suddenly. ‘Wow. Seems Tanky isn’t the only frightened predasaur around here.’


Robyn turned to see him looking out of the reinforced window, holding on to the safety rail in the wall. She got up carefully, riding out the bumps, and peered out through the window beside him.


Perhaps fifty metres away there stood a straggle of bizarre animals cropping the long grass: creatures that looked like elephants, but were covered incongruously in shaggy fur.


‘Mammoths. So many of them,’ Robyn said in wonder. ‘It’s like travelling back in time.’


The largest of the woolly mammoths had not taken kindly to the metal interloper straying onto the herd’s pastureland. It lowered its head, pointing its tusks at the Casspir like ivory scimitars.


‘Oh, no way,’ Grant breathed. ‘Mr Ballantyne –’


‘Dad!’ Robyn shouted.


The mammoth broke into a charge and came thundering towards them. Others followed.


‘Hold on,’ Roland yelled from the front, as the engine growl rose in protest. The Casspir hit a bump, and Robyn was thrown towards the rear. Through the window there she saw the rhino pen on the trailer, rocking wildly. The juvenile inside showed red eyes as it screamed out its rage. Clinging to the metal handholds, she tried to make eye contact with the frightened animal. But it was no use; the vehicle was rocking too much as the Casspir tore up the valley slope. The mammoths lost momentum in their pursuit as the vehicle rumbled up the hillside. By the time Roland had steered the Casspir back down the slope in a wide, sweeping arc, the beasts had given up. One of them raised its head and trumpeted a last bellow of rage before it disappeared from view, as Roland drove deeper into the veldt.


‘We’ll be carving a trail half a mile wide in this thing,’ Niko said anxiously. ‘We’ll be spotted so easily from the air.’


Roland tried to reassure her. ‘Xai, Ralph and Luke have a shorter journey to Gerhard’s. Once they’ve disabled Gerhard’s anti‑comms satellites, we’ll be able to make contact with the outside world.’


Robyn felt a pang of longing for the days when she could just pick up a phone and be a part of everything – order stuff online, check her social accounts, read the news. Now, of course, the Ballantynes were headline news themselves. Mbato and Gerhard had smeared her family so badly, Robyn felt sick to imagine what her former friends must think of her.


Grant was watching her. ‘Kind of surreal, isn’t it? Remembering when we were free.’


Robyn nodded. ‘I . . . never took the time to appreciate how good it was.’


‘Me neither. Cos we never imagined things wouldn’t stay that way.’ Grant used the hand supports in the walls of the Casspir to swing himself closer to her. ‘Things can change so quickly.’


‘I still can’t believe how much we’ve lost.’ Robyn looked into his eyes. ‘And I can’t believe we’ll ever get it back.’


‘Me neither. But hey . . .’ Grant gave her the smallest of smiles as he moved closer. ‘I also can’t believe what I’ve found on the way. Something kind of amazing.’


‘Amazing. Right.’ Robyn nodded. ‘I just know you’re talking about Tanky.’


Grant laughed. ‘Obvs.’ He moved in closer, placed his hand just below hers on the safety rail.


Robyn looked down at his scratched, dirty fingers. Generally, she found she was better at reading animals than people, but this seemed to her a clear invitation. If she were to move her fingers, press them against his own . . .


‘Grant!’ Roland barked from the front.


Grant literally jumped and snatched his hand away so fast he fell sideways and banged his head. ‘Sorry, Mr Ballantyne!’ he blurted.


Roland hit the brakes and the transporter rumbled to a halt, while Grant struggled to regain his balance – and his dignity.


‘What is it, Dad?’ Robyn asked, hugging herself, embarrassed.


‘They’ve done it!’ Roland held up Yonker’s satellite phone. ‘Xai, Ralph and Luke – they’ve dealt with Gerhard’s satellite.’


‘We’ve got a signal?’ Robyn laughed and grabbed Grant in an embrace, holding him close. ‘We can actually get through to the outside world!’


‘I can call my father,’ Grant said, holding Robyn back just as tight. ‘Find out what’s been happening, how bad things are. Get him to help us somehow.’


‘We’d better try him right away,’ Roland said. ‘That is, if you’ve finished celebrating.’


‘Who knows how long we have to talk?’ Niko added more gently.


Self‑consciously, Robyn broke off the embrace.


Grant stepped away and cleared his throat. ‘Right. Yeah. Course,’ he said. He made his way over to the front cab. ‘What do I even say to him?’


‘Let’s keep it brief,’ Roland said, passing him the phone. ‘I don’t want to move on and risk losing the signal. But that leaves us a sitting duck for Mbato’s troops.’


‘I’ll do my best. But . . .’ Grant hesitated. ‘I know I’ve said it before, but me and my dad, we . . . we don’t have the easiest relationship. He always put politics before me. And if he believes what the media say . . .’


‘Trust me,’ said Roland. ‘Whatever’s happened before, you’re his son, he’ll have been worried sick. He’ll want to help you.’


And he’s the only one who can
, thought Robyn. 
This could change everything.


She held her breath as Grant dialled his father’s number.


 


‘Yes! I did it!’ Luke crowed, his face lit blue by the monitor in front of him. ‘Gerhard’s satellites are no longer blocking competitor frequencies in the shared spectrum.’


‘Seriously?’ Standing in the brightly lit, air‑conditioned computer server room in the basement of Gerhard’s complex, Ralph felt relief rush through him. ‘How the hell did you manage to –’


‘I’m an expert.’ Luke threw back his head and laughed. ‘An expert at turning things on and off again! All I had to do was reboot the system, so it defaulted to regular operation.’


‘Don’t downplay it.’ Ralph slapped him on the shoulder.


‘The “I did it” part is what matters.’


‘Well, I couldn’t have done it without Gerhard!’ Luke chuckled. ‘Shame, huh?’


Ralph had to agree it was super‑sweet to use the man’s own tech against him. It wasn’t just the front gate that the chip in Gerhard’s neck opened; it automatically overrode all the regular security protocols, granting the big boss exclusive access to anywhere he chose without needing to carry a key, scan a retina or input a single code.


And that’s why he risked running outside his complex
, Ralph thought, 
so we wouldn’t find out
. Using his chip had allowed them to take the skeleton crew – who’d remained loyal to Gerhard and stayed to man the complex – by surprise; Xai soon had all four safely locked up in the animal pens. The only thing the chip couldn’t control was the building’s landline exchange, which was secured with a passcode so only approved personnel could make and receive calls. Gerhard had refused to spill the code, of course, determined to keep his jailers silenced for as long as possible.


Well, not any more
, thought Ralph. 
This is where it finally turns around for us
.


He jumped as the door opened suddenly, but it was only Xai, who had washed and changed out of his bloody clothes into ranger gear. He now held an AK‑47 assault rifle and smelled incongruously of expensive cologne. ‘I left Gerhard tied up in one of the bathrooms. Seemed a shame not to shower while I was there. Then I went to the armoury. An automatic rifle should never be used for hunting, but for some of the monsters Gerhard’s reared and released here . . . Well, I guess an AK is better protection than most.’ Reading Ralph and Luke’s faces, he grinned. ‘Wait. You were successful?’


‘Thanks to Luke, we should be able to get online now,’ Ralph said. ‘And Dad should be able to use the sat‑phone.’


‘So, first thing I need to do is get through to my folks,’ Luke said. ‘Man, they’re gonna freak out, hearing from me after all this time . . .’


The thought of reaching out to the world outside had seemed dizzying for a moment, but now that freedom left Ralph feeling scared. ‘Is it safe to just make contact like that?’


‘Safer than you doing it,’ Luke retorted. ‘I’m the only one of us not wanted by the law.’


‘But there’s no landline,’ Ralph said, ‘we don’t have a mobile we can use, and the PCs here will have logins you can’t crack –’


‘I can use one of them,’ Luke argued, ‘reset Windows without logging in – sure, it’ll wipe the drives, but who cares? You know my dad, he’s head of VanRok Security! Resources, manpower, moolah. He could get us out of here and over to Croc Lodge ahead of your dad. Scope out the place, make sure it’s safe.’


Xai smiled uncertainly. ‘Luke, I know how badly you must want to get back to your family –’


‘Is that a crime?’ Luke broke in.


‘You have to remember the media has said we are ecoterrorists,’ said Xai. ‘Sure, it would be great if your father could help us get out of here. But if he hears you’re with us, he might feel he has to go to the authorities . . .’


‘Then I won’t say I’m with you, and I’ll tell him to keep things on the down‑low,’ Luke replied. ‘Look, Gerhard threatened to have Dad and Mum killed if I didn’t do what he said. I need to know they’re OK, you know? And if he can get us out of here faster and safer than we can on our own, that’s good, right?’


Ralph nodded. He understood. He wished it was safe to message his own dad.


‘It’s worth a try,’ Xai said. ‘Make contact. We’re more likely to crack Gerhard’s security with him than without him.’


Luke left with Xai, and Ralph stood alone in the server room, feeling uneasy. For the first time in so long, it felt like they had scored a real victory.


He didn’t entirely trust it.


OceanofPDF.com













9


‘Hello, Dad?’


Grant closed his eyes as he heard his father’s voice explode over the phone line. ‘Son? Grant, is that really you? Are you all right?’


‘Yes, Dad, I’m all right. We need to talk.’


‘Well, where are you?’ his dad went on. ‘What the hell have you done? When I saw the reports, I couldn’t –’


‘
Dad
!’ Grant could feel anger and tears thickening behind his eyes. ‘Please. Just listen, I may not have long.’


‘All right. Sorry.’ His voice was professionally calm now: Max Khumalo, premier politician, was back on the line. ‘Go on, then. Say what you’ve called to say. But just . . . just tell me you’re safe.’


‘I can’t do that,’ Grant said, swallowing hard. ‘We’re not safe. We’re in danger.’


‘We?’ He paused. ‘I’ve seen the news reports. You’re with the Ballantynes?’


‘Yes. I’d be dead if it wasn’t for them.’


‘Have you any idea of the media storm around you all?’ His dad’s words came in a pained rush. ‘My own son branded a terrorist! With the election so close, it’s hit us hard in the polls. So many donors have thrown us to the wolves –’


‘Thrown you to the wolves?’ Grant hissed. ‘Mbato and Josef Gerhard threw 
me
 to a pack of cave hyenas! They threw Dane Mellanby to some monster that tore him apart.’


‘Dane?’ There was a stunned silence. ‘I feared the worst, but still hoped . . .’


‘He’s dead,’ Grant said simply, ‘murdered by Mbato. And it was Gerhard who bred the predasaurs and released the virus, not Mr Ballantyne. We only just escaped, and when we did, they framed us.’ He could feel Robyn’s eyes on him, and turned his back so she wouldn’t see how close to tears he was. ‘Sorry that the timing of all this doesn’t work for your campaign, Dad, but that’s just how it is.’


‘I guessed Mbato and Gerhard were working together,’ his dad said slowly. ‘The press put out a story that Mellanby used his position as party chairman to steal funds, then left the country because he knew we couldn’t win. But I never thought he’d stoop to actual murder . . . until I saw the evidence with my own eyes.’


‘What?’ Grant said, dreading the explanation.


‘My aide, Lindiwe Matuza. You went to school with her.’


‘Sure, I remember Lindiwe,’ said Grant. ‘What’s she got to do with anything?’


‘I sent her to our house to collect a laptop.’ His dad paused. ‘A simple errand. I’d have gone myself but Lindi was always so eager, so capable . . .’ He trailed off. ‘My staff found her there hours later, dead. Killed by scorpion venom. They also found the corpse of some monstrous beast in my office.’


In a horrified heartbeat, Grant was suddenly back running for the goods lift as the sea scorpion burst from its tank. He shook his head and tried to focus on Lindiwe – the cute girl he’d liked at school – and found that a whole lot harder.


‘Lindi’s dead?’ Grant whispered.


‘I’m afraid so. So much potential. Poorer world without her,’ his dad said gruffly. ‘We’ve had to hush it up, of course –’


‘But 
why
? Why kill her?’


‘The scorpion was supposed to kill me. It’s the only explanation.’ He paused. ‘I told you, Mbato has been working to link me to Ballantyne in the public’s mind through your involvement, inventing his own evidence. To have me dead, killed by one of Ballantyne’s unnatural creations – well. He could put out the story that I was the real mastermind, bankrolling Ballantyne’s schemes . . .’


Grant found he was nodding to himself. ‘Then your life’s in danger too.’


‘I’ve moved to a safe house on the outskirts of Pretoria for my own protection,’ his dad said. ‘Somewhere well away from the press and other prying eyes.’ He paused. ‘Where are you, Grant? Can you get to Pretoria?’


Grant looked at Robyn. ‘We were hoping you could get to us, at Crocodile Lodge.’


‘The Ballantynes’ place?’ His dad sounded doubtful. ‘I don’t dare risk it. If it got out that I was helping the people who created the virus –’


‘But you know that’s a lie!’


‘Of course I do, but as far as the voters are concerned . . .’ Grant could hear the pain in his father’s voice. ‘I’d be doing Mbato’s work for him. Not just making myself unelectable but facing criminal charges, political disgrace. Mbato would coast to victory, unopposed.’


‘Yeah. Course.’ Grant nodded, weariness engulfing him. ‘I get it.’


‘But listen. If you can get to me, I can help you.’


‘Just me?’ Grant stopped talking, allowed a tear to squeeze out from between his eyelids. ‘Look. I have to go. I’ll call again when I can, OK?’


‘Son, wait. The safe house is –’


‘Don’t tell me,’ Grant snapped. ‘If I know, and I’m caught, I could give you away. You can tell me when we’re sure we can get there, but it won’t just be me coming. It’s all of us or none of us. Bye, Dad.’


Grant killed the call.


Roland was looking at him, granite‑faced. ‘I take it that didn’t go so well?’


‘Actually, by Dad’s standards, that was a real heart to heart,’ Grant said.


Robyn came up beside him and placed a cool hand on his shoulder. ‘Can you tell us what he said?’


‘Sure.’ Grant wiped his cheek and mirrored her anxious gaze. ‘And I reckon I know how that Scorpio folder back at the mine got its name . . .’


 


In the animal pens in Gerhard’s complex, Ralph listened to the predasaurs howl.


The last time he’d been in this vast warehouse, he’d been a prisoner; now he stood on the same raised walkway he’d been forced over by Gerhard. It overlooked pens and cages of all sizes, each containing beasts whose ancestry stretched back to prehistoric times, to a world mired in blood that offered nothing but the bitter freedom to survive. 
Yes
, he thought, 
nature was cruel, but when someone like Gerhard interfered it was always a damn sight worse.
 These creatures had been manufactured – science stitched with savagery – and as he heard the predasaurs’ tortured yowls and barks, Ralph felt as if they knew that themselves, as if they felt their own wrongness. Their red, ulcerated eyes burned with it.


He’d come here to kill time while Luke tried to get through to his father. Xai had locked away the four animal workers who’d stayed behind, so Ralph had decided to feed the predasaurs, just as he did the animals back in Crocodile Lodge. He wanted to feel useful. There was a cold room full of refrigerated meat and stalls full of kibble and bedding. But there were also powders and chemicals to add to the water, steroids and proteins and who knew what. Despite the notes written on charts beside the cages, Ralph wasn’t sure what to do.


So he toured the area to see if any of the animals’ diets were more straightforward. He passed sabretooths, cave lions and, with a shiver of fear and disgust, a pack of cave hyenas like the ones that had hunted and so nearly killed him and his friends while Gerhard used drones to record the whole sick spectacle.


In every ravening predasaur, Ralph saw something of its creator.


Above the fierce bestial chatter, Ralph suddenly heard a weird keening coming from a dark corner of the warehouse. It was different to the other animal noises, more plaintive. Almost other‑worldly. He followed the sound, though the hairs on his neck stood up further with every step, and as he approached, lights flickered on to reveal a doorway in the wall.


Steeling himself, Ralph turned the handle. The smell of ammonia mingled with musk made him flinch. The mournful wail came again, louder and more insistent. He entered the dimly lit space and a shiver coursed down his spine. Ahead of him was a giant cage made of towering steel bars and wire mesh, casting pale, intricate shadows in his path.


Inside, a dark, massive figure taller than a man perched atop a wooden platform like an ancient sentinel. The feathers that adorned its formidable frame were mottled in earthy shades, helping it to blend perfectly with its surroundings. Ralph’s breath caught in his throat as he focused on the bird‑beast’s long, sinuous neck and monstrous beak – a weapon of primal design, gleaming menacingly even from a distance.


The thing wasn’t moving. It had called out, so it couldn’t be dead. Was it hurt?


The ground of the reinforced aviary told a morbid tale of its own. It was littered with the remnants of the beast’s grisly feasts: the carcasses of mammals, reptiles and birds lay in various stages of consumption, their presence a testament to the creature’s unrelenting appetite.


Suddenly the creature twisted and leaped down, its great wings opening as it slammed against the bars, its blade‑sharp talons scything the air to gouge Ralph’s flesh.


OceanofPDF.com













10


Robyn looked around as her dad slowed the Casspir, then brought it to a stop. The clumps of acacia trees were getting thicker. Birdsong echoed through the dusty heat.


‘I recognise that ridge,’ said Robyn, excitement stirring inside her. ‘We’re nearly home!’


Grant started at this. ‘You mean, we’ve reached your game reserve?’


‘Crocodile Lodge,’ said Niko softly.


‘On the other side of the ridge, there’s this big slope that sweeps down to the north perimeter,’ Robyn went on.


‘It’s good to be closer to home,’ said Roland, ‘but we won’t get far through the grounds in an armoured personnel carrier. The tracks are designed for jeeps.’


Robyn felt relief bubble up. ‘Then it’s lucky I left one near the border of Gerhard’s land,’ she said.


‘Of course.’ Niko turned to Roland. ‘We found it when we went looking for Ralph and Robyn.’


‘Feels like months ago.’ Roland rubbed the back of his neck. ‘Once we’re on our land it might be quicker to dump the Casspir while I find the jeep on foot and drive it back to shift the rhino trailer across.’


Grunts and an angry squeal carried from the trailer. ‘Poor Tanky,’ Robyn said. ‘That wound’s really bothering him.’


Niko nodded sympathetically. ‘If we can get him to the recovery pens, we’ll be able to do something about it.’


‘There’s a trailer dolly packed as standard on the trailer,’ Grant said. ‘Between the four of us, we should be able to hook it onto the jeep.’


‘Tanky’s going to get spooked,’ said Robyn.


‘I’ll help you look after him,’ said Grant.


Robyn felt a wave of warmth for Grant. She caught his eye and smiled at him before looking away. ‘He’s more used to us now. Hopefully we’ll be able to keep him calm.’


Roland nodded. ‘All right then. Let’s go.’


With a throaty snarl, the camo‑green transport took off down the slope towards the ridge.


 


Ralph fell back with a cry as the winged monster smashed against the bars, sending shudders through the cage. Lying on his back, Ralph used his feet to push himself further away, towards the door, as the monster, which stood over two metres tall, shrieked in rage. It was trying to work its curving, pointed beak between the bars. The skin around its beak was raw and bloodied from its frenzied attempts to break free of the enclosure.


As he forced himself up onto trembling legs, Ralph saw a tablet mounted on the wall. He recognised the app running as the one that Gerhard and his staff used to monitor and control the titanoboa or the woolly rhino. It recorded everything from the animal’s brainwaves to its heartbeat.


The screen was headed 
KELENKEN
. And at the bottom of the chart flashed two words that both chilled and comforted: 
CONTROL FAILED
.


‘Ralph!’ Xai had entered the room, AK‑47 at the ready. He helped up Ralph as the creature hurled itself at the bars again, screeching and scratching the ground with its huge claws. Xai fired off a few rounds at the ceiling to try to warn the predasaur back, but it only shrieked louder. Now he moved Ralph towards the door. ‘I came to find you, Ralph. Heard you yell . . .’


‘And now you know why.’ Ralph was so grateful that Xai was there. ‘Kelenken – that was part of the name of the locked file at the mine, remember? I knew I recognised the name. It’s that . . . thing. A kind of terror bird.’


‘Terror bird?’ Xai looked at the dark, feathered beast with its red eyes and bloodstained beak, and slowly lowered his rifle, gazing at it in fascination. ‘I mean, it’s a good name for it . . .’


‘Prehistoric monsters,’ Ralph said. ‘Kelenken was one of the biggest terror birds, I think. And the nastiest. Gerhard had them in one of the early 
Predasaur
 games, but it looks like he couldn’t control the real thing. See?’ He pointed to the tablet on the wall. ‘Failed.’


‘That’s all these beasts are to him,’ said Xai, his lip curling. ‘Things to control.’ He helped Ralph stagger through the door away from the stinking aviary, and slammed it behind him. ‘Are you all right? I came here to see if you needed a hand with feeding . . .’


‘My hand very nearly 
was
 the feed,’ Ralph said with a shudder. ‘But yeah, I’m fine. How did Luke get on?’


‘He got through to his father,’ Xai said. ‘Karl knew that Luke was a prisoner. Seems Gerhard’s been threatening to kill Luke if Karl doesn’t do what he wants.’


Ralph frowned. ‘And what’s that?’


‘Gerhard wants full access to his competitors’ computer systems,’ Xai said. ‘Since VanRok Security is pretty much the global gold standard, Karl was told to add a secret “back door” in the next security update. Then Gerhard could get at the data of thousands of companies – steal their ideas, put them out of business, and gain exclusive control of the tech entertainment market – while Mbato turns a blind eye, in exchange for help winning the election.’


Ralph nodded, sickened by the scale of their corruption. 
Your sentimentality stops you seeing life as it’s meant to be
, Gerhard had told him in this very building. 
The primal desire not just to survive, but to
 dominate 
. . .


Clearly, that desire consumed Gerhard in all areas of his life.


‘Well, now he knows Luke’s OK, van Rok can stick it to Gerhard, right?’ Ralph said more brightly. ‘He can testify against him.’


‘I don’t know. If it ever became public knowledge that Karl van Rok even considered installing spyware in his security updates, his business would collapse overnight. And you know how Mbato likes to manipulate the news.’ Xai shook his head. ‘But we can discuss all our options when he gets here.’


Ralph’s heart stammered. ‘Luke’s dad is on his way?’


‘In his private helicopter, a Bell 407.’ Xai smiled warmly. ‘We’ll go from here to Crocodile Lodge. There’s room for us all.’


‘Will we take Gerhard?’


‘I don’t see how that will help us,’ Xai said. ‘That’s kidnap. That reinforces our public image as the bad guys in this.’


Ralph nodded slowly. ‘But if we can take enough evidence from here, then that, along with Tanky with a Gerhard Industries chip inside him –’


‘Will paint a pretty damning picture of Gerhard’s activities,’ Xai agreed. ‘Now, van Rok said he’d scramble his pilot and leave as soon as possible. This place is, what – four‑fifty klicks from Pretoria? Even at cruise speed, a 407 could cover that distance in a couple of hours.’


Ralph felt his legs buckle beneath him with relief. ‘I don’t believe it,’ he said. ‘Then things might work out? We could be . . . rescued?’ He laughed out loud. ‘Nope, I don’t believe it. Not until the copter’s here. These next hours are gonna be the longest of my life!’


‘Then use them well,’ Xai said. ‘Luke is going through Gerhard’s files, looking for anything that incriminates Mbato.’


‘I can help him,’ Ralph suggested.


Xai shook his head. ‘Right now, you can help me care for these animals,’ he said. ‘None of this is their fault. They can’t help their nature. None of us can.’ He placed a hand on Ralph’s shoulder. ‘For instance, you? You are an adventurist, Ralph. You and your sister. Like your father. Like so many Ballantynes before him.’


Ralph couldn’t remember ever feeling so proud. ‘Thank you, Xai. If that’s true, it has to be down to you as much as Dad. You’ve taught me so much –’


‘Including how to hold a mop,’ Xai broke in, mock stern. ‘Now, less talk, more work, right?’


Ralph grinned. ‘Right.’


 


The ordeal had been epic and arduous, but as the Casspir rolled through the familiar terrain on the fringes of the Crocodile Lodge Game Reserve, Robyn knew that the end was finally near. The air was hot, and the sharp, ringing calls of cicadas made it seem even hotter. Home was close.


She was so lost in anticipation that Grant’s voice made her start.


‘Oh no,’ he said. ‘What happened there?’


Robyn looked, and the sight shocked her. In one sense, the answer to Grant’s question was obvious: a springbok had been killed. The poor thing had been torn apart . . .


But it was also so much more than that.


Its skull and haunches had been crushed.


Niko swore under her breath. ‘What could do that?’ she said.


‘Some sort of heavy impact,’ Roland said quietly. ‘Something must have hit it.’


‘A vehicle, you mean?’ Grant wondered aloud.


‘No,’ said Robyn, pointing ahead. ‘A vehicle couldn’t have hit all those.’


Roland eased the Casspir forward slowly into the clearing. A stomach‑turning smell of bad meat and death found its way into the Casspir. Springbok corpses, or pieces of them, were strewn all around in a grisly display. Robyn saw ribcages caved in and limbs severed with eerie precision.


‘There must have been a whole herd of springbok,’ Grant said. ‘Something tore them apart.’


‘A lot of somethings,’ said Robyn. ‘They must all have attacked at once, or the rest of the herd would have fled.’


‘And whatever they were, they weren’t just feeding,’ Roland said grimly. ‘To leave so much flesh . . .’


Niko finished the sentence: ‘They were killing for sport.’


Robyn felt sick to her stomach. She and Ralph had grown up knowing that the animals in the reserve were their responsibility. Their care and their wellbeing were the reason that Crocodile Lodge existed. To think that predators were roaming the reserve, ambushing the animals, slaughtering them . . .


No. Not predators.


Robyn looked at Grant and they spoke a single word in unison: ‘Predasaurs.’


With eerie timing, Tanky gave a low growl from the trailer.


‘Now we know why Gerhard was smirking when we said we were coming back here,’ said Robyn, her heart pounding.


Roland nodded. ‘He knew we’d run into his sick welcoming committee.’


‘Why would he leave predasaurs here, though? It’s not like he could’ve known we’d escape,’ Niko pointed out.


‘No, but thanks to him and Mbato, everyone thinks the Ballantynes are monster‑makers,’ Grant reminded her. ‘Leave a few of them here, it’s just even more “evidence” that we created the things.’


‘As well as the virus,’ Robyn added.


From the trailer, Tanky gave a mournful groan, as if in sympathy.


‘But the police have already searched the Lodge,’ Niko persisted. ‘You saw the media report. Surely any predasaurs they found would’ve been rounded up and captured.’


‘Not if Gerhard or Mbato brought them here after the initial burst of activity died down,’ said Grant. ‘You know, to keep people away. People who might want to help you. Allies.’ He shrugged. ‘I mean, these kills are fresh, aren’t they?’


‘No more than a day old,’ Roland agreed. ‘Any more than that, scavengers would’ve moved in.’


‘Unless the scavengers are dead too,’ Robyn said quietly. ‘What the hell is out there?’


Her question hung in the fetid air, unanswered.


‘I’ll scout ahead,’ Roland announced, ‘to see if we can take the route to the jeep in the Casspir instead . . . and to see if there’s any sign of whatever did this.’


Niko embraced him. ‘No stupid risks,’ she told him. ‘We’re 
so
 close to home now.’


‘We’ll make it,’ Roland told her. He climbed out of the driver’s seat and crossed to a locker in the back, sorting through the weapons they’d taken from the mine complex and selecting a rifle. He checked it was loaded, then opened the door, letting in a buzz of insects and the prickle of heat. ‘You’d better check on the rhino,’ he added, then moved stealthily away through the bush.


Robyn needed no telling. She was already getting out of the Casspir to check on him. The beast was taking rasping, shallow breaths. The wound in his back was an angry red. The rhino lunged forward to bang his head against the cage in his distress. Robyn shushed him, and reached an arm through the bars of his pen so she could press a soothing hand to his flank. ‘You won’t hurt me,’ she whispered. ‘You won’t, I know it
.
’


Grant crouched beside her. ‘How is he, d’you think?’


‘His eyes look redder than before,’ said Robyn.


Grant hesitated. ‘I’m guessing that couldn’t be your imagination?’


‘No,’ she said, wishing that was all it was. ‘It’s the stress of the journey, covering the ground at this speed, the pain from the bullet. Breathing all the fumes pumping out from the Casspir’s exhaust . . .’


‘And frustration at being locked up like this,’ Grant agreed. ‘Guess all that’s making his predasaur instincts stronger.’


Robyn nodded miserably and tousled the rhino’s fur. How long before he shrugged off the contact, tried to bite or gore her with the splintered remains of his horn?


I’m losing you
, she thought helplessly.


‘Things can only get better,’ Grant told Robyn. ‘Right? On the other side of the hill is home.’


Robyn nodded, took a deep breath. ‘Not long now,’ she whispered to Tanky. ‘Soon we’ll both be free.’


 


‘Yes!’ Luke shouted.


Leaning in the office doorway, Ralph jumped. ‘What is it?’


‘Found something.’ Luke got up and pointed at the screen. ‘Look, Ralph! Look here.’


Glad of the distraction, Ralph crossed to join him. Almost three hours had gone by since Xai had shared the news of their impending rescue, and there was still no sign of Mr van Rok or his helicopter. Xai was keeping watch outside, ready to guide the pilot in to land. He said that if they hadn’t found something to incriminate Mbato by then, they’d have to leave anyway.


‘I promised I’d take care of you,’ Xai had said. ‘So I’m getting you the hell away from here, the first chance we get.’


But we’ll be running forever if we don’t find something on the president
, thought Ralph. 
Please, Luke, let this be good
.


‘I’ve been trawling through the security footage from around the complex,’ Luke explained. ‘I wondered if there was any footage from the day they sent those hyenas after us, since Mbato was here . . .’


‘And?’ said Ralph tersely. He was scanning the screen, but it just showed a darkened street. ‘What have you got?’


‘Look! Mbato going into a building here, with Gerhard.’ Luke ran the footage, which indeed showed the president in a jacket embroidered with crowned eagles walking into a large wooden bungalow across the street. The sounds of night animals carried quietly on the footage.


‘That proves he visited here, but not much else . . .’ A sudden thought spiked in Ralph’s head. ‘Wait. That’s the night I saw Mbato and Gerhard in the street. Mbato was mad cos Gerhard left him waiting; he wound up walking from the main gate and Gerhard met him on the way.’


‘So, it might have been recorded?’ Luke nodded thoughtfully. ‘Wonder what direction they came from? It’s worth a search on nearby cameras, see if we can pick them up . . .’


‘The footage had sound,’ Ralph said. ‘I thought CCTV was silent?’


‘Only cos in public places and in big corporations there are privacy laws,’ Luke informed him. ‘Think Gerhard cares about that?’


‘Well, if I heard them from the rooftop, maybe a camera picked up their conversation too?’ Ralph could feel excitement gather inside him. ‘The meeting wasn’t planned, so it might have been overlooked. And they said some juicy stuff.’


‘Could be just what we need,’ Luke agreed, turning back to the computer and typing frantically. ‘He’s got an IP camera system – short for Internet Protocol. Each camera has its own IP address; they connect wirelessly and stream to his network. I’ll search the feeds for the fifteen minutes before they went into that lodge together, see if I can spot them . . .’


Xai burst into the room, breathless. ‘Helicopter! Just heard it approach.’


Ralph and Luke looked at each other, then both erupted into whoops and cheers. Xai ducked back out and they jogged after him.


‘Right on time!’ Luke shouted, clapping his hands. ‘You’ll like my dad, Ralphie! He’s a great guy.’


But when they joined Xai outside, one glance at his face told them that something was wrong.


‘That’s not your dad, it’s the military,’ Xai told them. ‘Zuma’s found us first!’


OceanofPDF.com













11


Ralph stared up at the azure sky as the dark smudge of the helicopter resolved into a camo‑green portent of hell. The afternoon sun’s golden rays danced off its metallic surface; it was an Oryx, designed for the rapid deployment of a task force to a battle‑space. Ralph knew it could hold up to twenty fully equipped troops, and its twin door‑mounted machine guns could fire at a target from up to eight hundred metres away with deadly accuracy.


‘Take cover, boys,’ Xai snapped. The large courtyard offered few hiding places, so they ducked back under the porch outside the office building.


‘How could Zuma know we’re here?’ Ralph said. ‘We hid the pickup.’


‘Could be here on the off‑chance – this is an obvious place for us to stop for supplies,’ said Xai. ‘Then again, we could’ve tripped a silent alarm.’


‘I bet they noticed the comms sat was reset,’ Ralph said. ‘Their blackout over this area has gone.’


‘Who cares how they know? Maybe they’re psychic!’ Luke hissed. ‘But my dad is on his way. They wouldn’t do anything to civilians, right?’


Xai looked grave. ‘Out here, with no witnesses, who’s to say what they’ll do?’


‘So what do 
we
 do?’ said Ralph. ‘Hide out somewhere and hope they don’t find us?’


‘They’ll find Gerhard,’ Xai pointed out. ‘And one check of the CCTV will show him that we never left.’


The helicopter was getting closer, circling overhead – looking, perhaps, for evidence of trespassers. Or for a landing site.


Xai held up his AK‑47. ‘You know, your father and I once took down a copter with one of these.’


‘You can’t attack an entire unit single‑handed. Maybe in the jungle, where you’ve got cover, but out in the open? You wouldn’t stand a chance!’ Ralph protested. ‘If I get one too –’


‘You are not engaging the enemy in a firefight,’ Xai said flatly. ‘You’re fifteen years old.’


‘And he won’t live to see sixteen if we don’t do something,’ Luke said.


‘Wait!’ Ralph pointed to two burnt‑orange shapes creeping stealthily into sight from behind a storehouse. ‘Great, that’s all we need. Those sabretooths followed us into the compound.’


‘We should get inside and jam the doors,’ Luke said. ‘Try to find a back way out.’


‘We don’t yet know where the copter will put down,’ Xai reminded him. ‘When we know that, we can act.’


Peering out from the porch, Ralph watched as the Oryx began to descend, sweeping down towards the courtyard. The big cats looked up and roared as the air rippled with rotor wash. 
They’re going to land right here
, Ralph thought. 
What the hell are we going to do?


As the copter made ready to land, two soldiers leaned out from inside, one on either side, beneath the positioning lights. Ralph’s stomach twisted as they opened fire on the sabretooths, cutting down the magnificent beasts in a storm of bullets even as they tried to run. He wanted to shout ‘no!’


But Xai knew other ways to shout.


He charged out and opened fire on the troops who were leaning out of the copter. Two swift deadly bursts of gunfire, and the men jerked backwards then fell. One landed with a thud on the paving, the other on top of a sabretooth’s corpse. Immediately, the copter rose sharply as the pilot took evasive action. But Xai was already running, faster than Ralph would’ve believed possible, bellowing out his adrenaline as he blazed away directly at the cockpit. In a heartbeat the glass was riddled with bullet holes, and in two more it had exploded into fragments. The pilot slumped over the control stick and the helicopter dipped dangerously and swerved in a drunken circle, the prop wash knocking Xai to one knee.


Shielding his eyes, the roaring wind tugging at his hair and clothes, Ralph stared as the carnage unfolded. 
Take cover, Xai!
 Ralph willed his old friend.


But Xai raised his assault rifle and took careful aim at the tail rotor as it swung towards him. Red sparks scattered over camo‑green and thick black smoke huffed out to dance in the wild wind. The helicopter tipped backwards, metres above the ground.


‘Xai’s done it!’ whooped Luke. ‘That copter’s finished!’


More gunfire. A bellow of pain.


Xai.


Hunched over, Ralph half‑ran, half‑staggered out into the storm of smoke and noise. He took in the scene between blinks, a frenzy of freeze‑frames. A soldier had jumped from the helicopter. Her short‑cropped hair framed a face that could’ve been chiselled from ebony; it bore both the scars of battle and the grim bravery of a seasoned warrior. She held a Vektor R4.


Captain Zuma
, Ralph thought numbly. 
Got to be
.


Two more soldiers jumped down from the helicopter as it continued to spin, landing awkwardly. One yelled in pain as his leg buckled beneath him; the other hit the ground and rolled over and over.


They’re easy targets. Fire back, Xai, quick, before –


But Xai, still on one knee, was falling backwards. He reached out an arm behind him to support himself, strained to hold the AK‑47 in his free arm.


The woman fired again. A short, ruthless rattle.


As if yanked on an invisible wire, Xai fell to the ground. The rifle fell from his grip.


Ralph opened his mouth to scream, but the sound was taken by the whining roar of the stricken helicopter. Thick diesel smoke blew around him, blinding him. He heard footsteps pounding, but couldn’t work out if they were growing closer or heading away. He lay flat, rubbing his eyes, trying to clear the grit and tears, willing his sight back into focus, though he was terrified of what he’d see.


The smoke cleared a little in a billowing rush. Ralph saw the helicopter go barrelling across the courtyard towards one of the lab buildings. The tail rotor punched through the brickwork. More soldiers threw themselves from the copter onto the roof – rolling, falling, trying to scramble clear, their bodies lost from sight as shrieking rotors tore through roof tiles, twisting and buckling. Shards of ceramic and carbon fibre sliced through the air, and for the next few moments Ralph’s world was nothing but noise and horror and whirling shrapnel. Just as he thought that he could stand no more, the helicopter exploded in a colossal fiery blast, its death throes seared into his vision.


Then the wind dropped. Fierce flames licked up from inside the building. Smoke shrouded the crash site, but couldn’t mask the screams of the injured. Zuma was running towards the disaster zone to help her troops, shouting commands at the two men who accompanied her.


Suddenly rough hands clamped down on Ralph’s shoulders. He yelled in surprise, struggled and kicked.


‘Whoa, bruh, it’s just me!’ Luke hissed. ‘You OK?’


Ralph shook his head, dumbly, his eyes drawn to the dark puddle of blood seeping out from Xai’s body. Shaking off Luke, he crawled over to Xai, trembling all over.


‘Xai?’ Ralph whispered. Hope flared inside him as Xai’s eyes snapped open. 
He’s only wounded!


‘Ralph.’ Xai tried to raise his head, and a dribble of blood escaped his lips. ‘You and Luke, you’re all right?’


‘Yeah, but what about you?’ Ralph tried to keep the shake from his voice. ‘You’re injured, tell me how I can make it –’


‘Go,’ Xai said. ‘Ralph, it’s down to you – you and Robyn. Get the evidence.’ He coughed, and blood flooded over his chin. ‘Get your father out of this for me . . . my little rogue.’ His head fell back, and his eyes flickered shut.


‘No . . .’ Ralph stared down at Xai’s face. Those familiar features that he’d seen etched with worry these last weeks had finally settled in peace.


Little rogue
. Dad’s nickname for Xai, the one that meant so much. 
He’s passed it on to me, like a mantle.


A mantle that had to be earned.


‘Ralph,’ Luke said, crouching beside him. ‘Is he . . . ?’


‘Zuma killed him.’ Ralph stood up, anger and grief trapped inside, heating in his blood like the smoke and fumes all around them. He couldn’t stop staring down at Xai, couldn’t find a way to express his grief. But he knew that would have to wait. 
You’re an adventurist
, he told himself, trying to marshal his thoughts. ‘We . . . we’ve got to get that CCTV evidence.’


‘Ralph!’ Luke grabbed his arm.


Ralph shrugged him off. ‘Zuma’s gone to help her squad, but they’re pros. They’ll come for us soon enough. And without that evidence –’


‘Ralph, 
look
. There!’ Luke pointed up at the sky. ‘Another copter?’


Ralph finally tore his gaze away from Xai’s face, looked up. ‘Yeah. Smaller copter. White, not camo.’


‘So!’ Luke put both hands on Ralph’s shoulders. ‘Got to be my dad, right?’


‘Must be,’ said Ralph. 
Xai can’t have given his life for nothing
, he thought. 
No way
. He turned his back on the chaos and the bodies, but smoke still billowed all around. ‘The crash site will draw the pilot in. We’ve got to get that footage –’


‘Not now, bruh! We’ve got to make sure Dad sees us, find somewhere he can land.’


‘But –’


‘Move, Ralph. Come 
on
!’


Reluctantly, his brain feeling as clouded as his vision, Ralph let Luke lead him away from the bloody scene – slowly, almost stumbling at first, but soon racing faster and faster, revulsion and nausea pushing him on.


‘Remember when we were first brought here, with Robyn?’ Luke shouted. ‘That concrete building. There was a big lawn outside it. Perfect landing site, right?’


Ralph nodded, and as he and Luke rounded the main admin block, he recognised the low, functional building.


‘That’s it!’ Luke cried, racing towards it.


Ralph heard shouts and yelling from the area of the downed helicopter – and a guttural, ferocious roar. With a sudden spark of horror, he realised the soldiers’ copter must have crashed into the warehouse where the predasaurs were kept.


‘Look! Dad has seen us!’ Luke shouted, windmilling his arms.


The helicopter dropped lower through the trailing smoke, its taxi and landing lights pulsed alternately as it circled tightly overhead. The air turned fierce again with the whirring rotors, stinging Ralph’s eyes. Blinking hard, Ralph saw the pilot gesturing with one hand towards the far side of the examination building, then pointing downward. The helicopter turned and hovered away from them at low altitude.


As if filling in for the small drop in volume, the sound of gunfire rattled from the other side of the admin block. Luke seemed rooted to the spot. ‘They’re shooting at us!’


‘Not at us,’ Ralph muttered, glancing back over his shoulder.


The shaggy form of a cave hyena emerged from the apocalyptic fog; in all the chaos, it must have broken loose from its cage. Even from eighty metres away, Ralph could see the bloody drool stringing from its mouth.


If Luke sees that thing, he’ll freak
, Ralph realised. Still numb, he all but shoved Luke forward. ‘Keep running,’ he snapped. ‘Don’t look behind you, just keep running for that helicopter!’


The cave hyena howled, and two of its brothers stalked from the roiling fog. A moment later, both jerked and jumped under a further burst of gunfire. The two new monsters fell to the grass, but the first took off on powerful hind legs. Fleeing the soldiers?


No. Running down its prey. Them.


That’s it
, Ralph thought. 
There’s no time to get the footage, no chance to go back and get Gerhard, no way to take Xai’s body with us.
 He felt a surge of anger, which drove him on despite the stitch in his side, the cramp squeezing at his calves. His feet left the tarmacked path, pounding dust from the grass as he sprinted past the examination building.


There it was! The Bell 407 waited on the lawn, gleaming in the sunlight, its rotors spinning lazily, as if mocking the frantic chaos so close by. The cabin door opened and Mr van Rok jumped down, his face ashen, holding his arms out to his son. Luke ran to him like a flanker taking on the ball carrier, almost knocking him down. They clung to each other.


The cave hyena rounded the corner of the building, its eyes red and wild, snorting and grunting, its muscles rippling under its coarse reddish‑brown fur. Then another rattle of gunfire, louder this time, took its legs out from under it. It screeched in rage.


‘Go!’ Ralph bellowed.


Mr van Rok was already bundling Luke into the cabin. The rotors spun faster as the engine whined. With one final effort, Ralph dived into the cabin. He closed his eyes, shaking and panting, the cool leather of the seat a balm against his flushed cheek.


The Bell’s powerful engine roared, drowning out the sounds of the pursuing soldiers as the copter lifted. Ralph looked out. The world beneath blurred as the chopper ascended. He could see Zuma standing astride the corpse of the third cave hyena, staring up at the copter implacably; four men were behind her, guns raised but not firing. He clung to his seat, his knuckles white as he watched the squad grow smaller and smaller beneath them as the copter swung from the jaws of danger to the boundless freedom of the African sky.


Luke turned to him, tears of relief streaming down his face. He locked his arms around Ralph. ‘We made it,’ he hissed.


‘You and I did.’ It was all Ralph could say. He leaned against Luke. But apart from that physical contact, he felt nothing. Nothing at all.


OceanofPDF.com













12


The Casspir rolled slowly forward through the thick brush. Robyn was glad the route to the jeep was passable, but wished they could stay in the armoured personnel carrier all the way to the Lodge itself, for the protection it offered. Roland had observed no further signs of the mystery predasaurs, but that didn’t mean they weren’t closing in with every passing moment.


‘I hate to say this,’ Grant said, ‘but we’re towing a caged rhino. To whatever’s out there, that’s got to be a giant fresh food hamper. He’ll bring them running like kids after a Happy Meal.’


‘What do you want us to do?’ said Robyn. ‘Ditch the trailer and leave him to die?’


Roland sighed loudly. ‘If there have been predasaurs here at the Lodge all along,’ he muttered, ‘there was no need to bring the rhino at all.’


‘You’d rather hunt and catch whatever’s done 
this
?’ Robyn gestured angrily at the bloody carnage. ‘We’ve just established they hunt in a pack.’


Grant put his hand on her arm. His smile was an apology, his eyes dark and soulful. ‘I’m sorry, you’re right. Guess I’m just not looking forward to changing a trailer in the open.’


‘At least we’re armed,’ said Roland at last, tapping the butt of his rifle that lay beside his seat. ‘Grant, can you divvy up the firepower?’


‘On it.’ Grant went to the locker, checked and loaded a rifle, then passed it to Niko. She took it with a look of foreboding. Grant passed another rifle to Robyn and took one for himself.


‘Robyn, Grant, take a pistol too,’ Roland said. ‘For protection at close range. I don’t want anything catching us unawares.’ He started forward again. They drove along, shifting from side to side as the huge wheels rumbled over the uneven terrain. No one spoke. The rifle felt cold and heavy in Robyn’s grip.


Suddenly she recognised a thicket, where the spiky lilac blooms of sprawling ribbon bush entwined with the tangled branches of bush violet. ‘I remember that! The bush violet was just beginning to flower . . .’


‘Yes,’ said Roland. ‘This is it.’


Robyn saw a dusty vehicle parked neatly under the sheltering branches of a marula grove. ‘There it is, just where we left it,’ she said, her heart pounding. ‘If you stop here where there’s some space, I’ll drive the jeep up beside the Casspir. Then we don’t have to move the trailer as far.’


‘Good thinking,’ Roland agreed. ‘I’ll go with you. We’ll be quick. And careful.’


‘I’ll cover you,’ Grant promised, sliding back the tough glass window beside him so he had freedom to fire.


Robyn scanned the bushveld but couldn’t see any movement. Her dad caught her eye, nodded encouragingly, then quietly scrambled out of the Casspir, landing on the ground with the rifle already in his hands.


Robyn checked the pistol, pushed it into her waistband then got out as well, holding her rifle. Following her dad, she was halfway to the jeep when she felt a wave of fear shiver up her spine. It took her a moment to work out what had caused it, but then she saw Roland’s warning hand gesture and realised he’d seen it too – or rather, heard it.


Silence.


An unnatural quiet had settled over the clearing. Even the cicadas sounded far away here. Robyn clutched the rifle tighter in sweaty hands. Watching. Hardly breathing.


‘Nothing here,’ Roland whispered. He gestured her forward. Robyn moved quickly to the driver’s side of the jeep. She’d expected to feel a little calmer once she was inside, under cover, her dad beside her. But after riding in the Casspir for so long, here with the wider windscreen and windows she felt horribly exposed: an animal locked into a cage of glass and flimsy metal.


‘Let’s move,’ Roland said quietly.


The key was still in the ignition, and Robyn turned it. The engine fired first time, and she reversed the jeep through the clearing, parking parallel to the Casspir.


Roland scrambled out, rifle at the ready, scanning all around. ‘Niko, keep watch. Grant, Robyn, with me – we need to move the trailer across quickly.’


Niko slid out of the vehicle and took up a defensive position between the Casspir and the bonnet of the jeep, while Robyn and Grant worked with Roland to transfer the trailer. Grant slid the hydraulic dolly under the trailer coupler and nudged it loose from the Casspir. The trailer was well balanced, but it still took the three of them pushing and pulling hard to shift it across to the jeep, even with the dolly. Tanky made their job harder, stamping his foot against the floor of the trailer and trying to push his head through the bars, his red eyes narrowed.


Robyn saw a sudden flicker of movement through the acacia trees as they clicked the coupler in place on the jeep’s tow bar. Tanky gave a high‑pitched squeal and lay down on the floor.


‘Something’s out there,’ whispered Niko.


‘Everyone into the jeep,’ said Roland in a low voice.


But it was too late.


A massive creature, taller than Robyn, burst from the undergrowth about twenty metres away with a terrifying screech. It was like an emu crossed with a dinosaur, heavy and muscled, with small wings, a thick, solid neck and an oversized head. A beak with a hooked end, sharp and vicious, curved out from turquoise feathers. Its legs ended in talons that looked sharp and strong as grappling hooks.


‘They’re terror birds!’ Grant shouted. ‘I’ve seen pictures in museums . . .’


Two more identical monsters pushed through the thicket behind it. All three shrieked, lowered their heads and broke into a charge.


Roland bellowed, ‘
Open fire!
’


OceanofPDF.com













13


Robyn drew her pistol, aimed and fired in one swift, adrenaline‑fuelled movement that took place without conscious thought. The gargantuan bird‑beast bearing down on her jerked back and stopped. Another shot knocked it sideways, making it screech in rage. She heard Tanky yowl in the trailer pen, the smash and rattle as he beat his body against the bars. But the sound was quickly drowned out by the fusillade of bullets as her dad, Grant and Niko unleashed hell on the attacking terror birds.


Robyn saw one go down beside her, but more of the ravening creatures were pouring into the clearing from all directions – six, seven, eight . . . She heard Grant cry out in pain, saw him roll backwards over the bonnet of the jeep and vanish from sight. She fired at his attacker, but the shot went wide.


This is it
, she thought, firing again in desperation. 
We don’t come back from this one
.


‘Look out, Rob!’ her dad screamed.


A claw caught Robyn a glancing blow on the shoulder, and pain lanced down her arm. She dropped the gun and fell back against the side of the Casspir as a terror bird lunged towards her. With a shriek she dodged, and the hooked beak struck armoured metal like a pickaxe swung just over her head. Robyn fell to her knees, and a bony heel thumped into her chest. She fell back, staring up at the huge, taloned foot rising over her, ready to stamp on her neck.


Suddenly there was a flash of dusty yellow, and a roar. A maned lion slammed into the body of the terror bird, which screamed as it was thrown sideways. Robyn blinked, unable to believe she was still alive. She realised in a flash that the lion’s tail was only a stump – clearly damaged beyond help in an earlier battle.


Jari!
 she thought, dazed and amazed in equal measure. The lion she’d cared for as a cub had come to her rescue.


Then something grabbed her good shoulder from beneath the Casspir and pulled hard. She gave a shout of surprise, and scrabbled at the leafy ground to stop herself being dragged under.


‘It’s me!’ Grant hissed.


‘Oh, thank God.’ Robyn closed her eyes and rolled closer to him, trying to calm herself with deep breaths of air that was tinged with oil and diesel. ‘You’re all right?’


‘Nothing a lifetime of therapy won’t cure,’ he hissed back.


Robyn heard her dad shout over the roars and screeches. ‘Niko, the jeep! While they’re distracted.’ Two more gunshots sounded close by, and a door slammed. ‘Get in and get down.’


I have to see
, thought Robyn. 
I have to know what’s going on
. She started to wriggle towards the rear of the Casspir.


‘Don’t!’ Grant kept hold of her. ‘Terror birds aren’t built for crouching, I don’t think they can get under here, but their claws are killers. Come in close.’


‘I need to help Jari!’ Robyn insisted, breaking away. There was room to move beneath the Casspir, since the body of the vehicle was raised off the ground to protect it against exploding landmines. She felt sick at the thought of losing Jari. Was he simply responding to predators invading his space, or had his protective instincts brought him into the fight when he’d realised Robyn was in danger?


She couldn’t see her dad or Niko from here – only Jari, in the thick of the action, fighting two terror birds among the bodies of the fallen. One of the bird‑beasts lunged at Jari with a screech, striking down with its huge beak. Jari twisted out of the way then leaped upwards in an explosion of movement to grab the bird’s feathered neck in his powerful jaws. The terror bird struggled but failed to keep its balance, then Jari managed to drag it to the ground. But the other terror bird was circling warily, claws twitching, looking for a clear attack path.


Jari was trying to suffocate the downed predasaur, his tight grip compressing its windpipe. But the terror bird was resisting; it was larger than a lion’s normal prey, stronger and tougher. Jari still wasn’t at his full strength, and Robyn knew that his missing tail meant that his balance would be slightly off. If it came to two against one . . .


Grant crawled up beside Robyn, gripping his rifle. ‘I’ve got one shot left.’


Robyn pointed to the terror bird still standing, its wings shivering as it crept closer to the savaging lion. ‘Get it!’ Robyn hissed. ‘Quick!’


‘Angle’s not easy from here,’ Grant muttered. ‘I’m more likely to hit Jari.’


The terror bird hissed, its feathers raised in an intimidating display.


Robyn groaned with fear. It’s going to take Jari apart!


Then she heard a roar, startlingly loud, and felt a rush of fierce elation as Jari’s brother Sabal charged through the mopane trees and joined the fight. Snarling, Sabal thrust his claws deep into the other terror bird’s back. It screeched and twisted, trying to kick or strike with its beak. Jari looked up, his muzzle bloody, triumphant at last over his dying prey. Now he struggled up to help his brother; working together, the two lions wrestled the beast to the ground.


‘Look out!’ Robyn screamed as yet another terror bird charged from the bushes, ready to slam its huge, heavy beak into Sabal. Then Grant fired off a shot and a third red eye opened in its bony forehead. The monster bird fell close to the struggling lion brothers.


Grant smiled and shrugged at Robyn. ‘Better angle.’


Two booted feet dropped down in front of them, and Robyn gasped. But it was just her father; he must have been standing on top of the Casspir, out of reach of the carnage. Now he crouched and all but hauled Grant and Robyn out from under the vehicle. Robyn saw that Tanky was huddled on his side, panting and shaking, his eyes tightly shut. Even in the midst of the carnage, Robyn’s heart went out to him; he was clearly terrified, but at least the terror birds hadn’t made him their first target.


‘Any rounds left?’ Roland demanded. ‘I’m out.’


‘Me too,’ Grant said.


‘I dropped the rifle,’ Robyn admitted. ‘Dad, while Jari and Sabal have our backs –’


‘We need to get out of here,’ Roland agreed. ‘Both of you, join Niko in the jeep.’


With the snaps and snarls of the final throes of the bestial contest ringing in her ears, Robyn raced across to the jeep. Niko, in the back, threw open the door and Grant jumped in. Robyn wrenched open the driver’s door, and saw her dad scoop up the fallen rifle before running over to join them. She got inside and tried the engine; it rumbled into life as her dad slid in through the other door.


‘Go!’ Roland commanded.


Robyn pushed the accelerator in a controlled, steady surge that got them moving without rattling Tanky’s trailer too much. Then, with a crashing thump, a huge beak smashed through the roof of the jeep, barely missing Niko’s head. She and Grant yelled, but Robyn kept her cool – and her foot on the accelerator – and swung the steering wheel to the right to brush the jeep against the mopane trees as they drove past. There was a scraping and a scrabbling against the side of the jeep, then a thump as the bird struggled free and dropped away.


‘Is everyone OK?’ asked Roland. They were all shaken, but no one was injured.


‘What about Jari and Sabal?’ Feeling sick with adrenaline, Robyn was trying to glimpse them in the rear‑view mirror.


Grant peered back. ‘I think they killed the one they were fighting.’


‘Even if they did, there could be more on the way,’ said Niko. ‘Drawn here by the sound of the battle.’


‘Two lions could never deal with them all,’ Robyn muttered.


‘Nor can we,’ said Roland frankly. ‘We have two rounds left.’


‘To last us till we reach Crocodile Lodge,’ said Robyn, gripping the wheel with determination.


‘It’s only a few miles,’ said Grant.


Niko snorted softly beside him. ‘Only,’ she echoed.


 


Ralph perched on the edge of his leather seat in the helicopter’s well‑appointed cabin. Staring out of the window, he was convinced that danger was about to swoop down on them, even from a clear blue sky. It didn’t help that Luke was so damned joyful, his dad’s arm around him, catching up. Of course he was happy for Luke; Ralph knew how much his friend had been through. But the sight of him so happy only emphasised the bitterness he felt inside at having lost Xai.


How will I ever tell Dad, and Robyn?
 Ralph thought miserably. 
How will anything ever be the same again?


He jumped at a tentative touch on his arm. Karl van Rok was smiling at him sympathetically. He was tall and tanned; in his designer suit he might have walked out of a men’s fashion magazine.


‘Not long till we reach your place,’ he told Ralph. ‘You know, Luke told me what you were doing before the soldiers came. If we had real evidence of criminal conspiracy –’


‘We were so close,’ Ralph said. ‘We had Gerhard and Mbato talking on CCTV. If only Zuma and her squad hadn’t come then –’


‘We can still get it,’ Luke said. ‘I emailed myself the IP address of each camera on the network. We just have to find out which camera has the footage.’


‘Before it’s deleted,’ Mr van Rok added. ‘If Gerhard works out what you were up to there, he’ll wipe the footage altogether. We need a decent computer so I can get past Gerhard’s firewall and clone the footage.’


Ralph frowned. ‘Can you really do that?’


Luke snorted. ‘Dad knows a couple of things about bypassing online security.’


‘We need to move fast, though,’ said van Rok. ‘Those soldiers saw us take off. It won’t take them long to link this copter to VanRok Security. They’ll know it’s me who came for you . . .’


‘So they might think we’d go back to your offices,’ Ralph said. ‘Or even your home, right?’


‘Right,’ Luke agreed. ‘Could give them a couple of false trails to follow. Buy us time.’


Ralph nodded. ‘If we can get that CCTV footage of Mbato and Gerhard to Max Khumalo as well as the woolly rhino with Gerhard’s chip inside, then maybe he’ll be able to convince people that we’re innocent.’


‘Course he will,’ said Luke.


If we ever get there
, thought Ralph, turning back to the endless blue of the heavens beyond the window, keeping watch for specks in the sky that might be following them.


OceanofPDF.com













14


Robyn knew all the trails between here and Croc Lodge, and no one spoke as she drove at a brisk pace. Her heart ached at the thought of seeing home again, but she also dreaded what they might find.


What else could Gerhard have done to their home?


She knew that her dad and Niko must be thinking the same thing. Roland loved this land and the animals that lived on it. He and Xai had devoted years to developing and building up the reserve. 
I wish all this was over
, she thought longingly, 
and we could all get back to rebuilding our lives. 


When they were about five hundred metres from the Lodge, Roland touched her arm. ‘We’d better scout ahead on foot. If there are any more terror birds waiting at the Lodge, they’ll hear the jeep.’


Robyn sighed and nodded. ‘How about I stop under that bushwillow?’ she said. ‘It will give Tanky some cover, hopefully enough to keep him hidden.’


‘If we’re lucky, we won’t need to leave him for long,’ Niko added reassuringly.


Yeah. Because we’re always so lucky
, thought Robyn, steering them forward. A few of the bushwillow’s four‑winged fruits were still on the higher branches from the previous autumn. They scraped quietly against the roof as she eased the jeep and trailer among the shrubs. The finger‑thick branches bent as the jeep pushed through, but didn’t break. Years back, Xai had made her a bow to learn archery on out of one of these flexible branches because it wouldn’t break easily in her beginner’s grip. She smiled, looking forward to seeing him again.


While Roland and Niko inspected the damage to the jeep, Robyn got out and stretched wearily. Her shoulder throbbed, and she felt tired to her core. She forced herself to focus on the familiar sounds of nature around her: the birdsong, the crickets chirping, the calls of animals nearby. There were no unfamiliar sounds or warning calls . . . yet. Hopefully the local wildlife would be their first warning of danger.


She went around to the trailer to check on the woolly rhino. He was listless, lying on his side and breathing noisily, his eyes a milky pink.


‘He looks to have calmed down,’ said Grant.


‘He needs to get out of this cage,’ said Robyn sadly, stroking the side of Tanky’s shaggy head. ‘It’s wrong to move a wild animal so far in these conditions.’


‘It’s not like we had much choice. And this way, in the end, he’ll be free.’ Grant paused, looking at her. ‘Maybe we all will. We’re so close –’


‘Don’t.’ Robyn put her fingers to his lips. ‘Don’t jinx it.’


‘We are, though.’ Grant took her fingers gently in his. ‘We’re 
this
 close.’


Impulsively, Robyn leaned forward to kiss him. The contact sent a jolt through her and she quickly pulled away, cheeks burning as she checked her dad wasn’t looking.


‘In case there’s no later,’ she murmured.


‘Uh, right.’ Grant looked kind of shocked. He took a few steps back and wiped sweat from the back of his neck, but he was smiling. ‘So. Should we try Tanky on some more kibble?’


‘Nope.’ Niko came to join them and shook her head. ‘If we’re going to clean out that wound properly and stitch him up, I’ll need to put him under anaesthetic ASAP. Feeding him will increase the chance of him vomiting.’


‘Nice,’ said Grant.


‘There’s water in the back of the jeep,’ said Robyn. ‘That’s all right, isn’t it –’


‘Quiet!’ Roland snapped.


In the hush over the thrum and buzz of the crickets, Robyn heard the faint sound of a helicopter. Automatically, moving almost as one, they bunched together for cover under the bushwillow.


‘Mbato?’ Niko wondered.


‘Can’t be a civilian flight if there’s a lockdown,’ Grant said nervously.


‘I’ll check it out,’ said Roland.


Robyn watched him move away stealthily through the branches. Grant stood next to her and took her hand.


A muffled, electronic trill from close by made them all jump.


‘What the hell?’ Grant hissed.


‘Oh, I know what that is,’ breathed Robyn, prickling with excitement. ‘That’s the jeep’s emergency breakdown phone, stowed with the toolkit.’ She stepped past Tanky’s trailer to get to the boot catch. With the trailer in place, the door wouldn’t open fully. ‘It’s got to be Ralph! We both know the number off by heart.’


‘Pick it up – fast,’ Niko urged her. ‘That noise will bring whatever is out there – human or animal – down on us.’


Robyn nodded. She lifted the sack of dried food from the boot then tugged at the liner to get to the toolkit beside the spare wheel. The ring tone sounded again, louder. She was surprised there was still any power in the phone. Xai always checked that the sat‑phones were charged before any expedition, but after all these weeks . . .


She hit Answer. ‘Ralph?’


‘Rob!’ His voice sounded strained, cracking with relief. ‘I don’t believe it. Is everyone OK?’


‘Barely,’ said Robyn.


‘Thank God. I’m in a copter overhead –’


She felt instant relief. ‘We can hear you!’


Ralph’s words tumbled out in a rush. ‘I tried calling home but no one picked up, then I saw the Casspir abandoned and I was so scared, then I realised the jeep was gone and I thought, “emergency phone!” and . . . well, where is the jeep?’


‘We’re under cover of –’


‘Never mind that, Rob. Listen, we’re coming to get you guys, but you’ve got to be careful – there are terror birds all over the reserve.’


‘Terror birds!’ Robyn cut Ralph off. ‘That’s what Grant called them. You know about those things?’


‘They’re in one of the 
Predasaur
 games. And I met one at Gerhard’s complex. He’s been trying to control them like the others.’


‘Well, the ones we met were totally out of control.’ Robyn felt a shiver as she brought the phone over to Niko and Grant so they could listen in. ‘We haven’t reached home yet.’ She looked up at the sky, bright sunlight scattering through the vegetation, and racked her brain. ‘Ralph, remember the clearing where we picked up the trail of the old bull elephant?’


‘The bull Gerhard’s sarcosuchus tore apart,’ Ralph said. ‘Yeah. I remember.’


‘We’re quite close to there. I’ll get Dad – can you watch for us?’


‘Will do.’


‘Here, talk to Grant for a minute.’ She pushed the phone into Grant’s hand and ran over to the jeep and opened the door. Then she gripped the rear‑view mirror and wrenched it off.


Niko frowned at her. ‘What are you –’


‘Check on Tanky,’ said Robyn, swiping the phone from Grant. ‘Then stay in the jeep.’ She ran off through the bushwillows. ‘Back soon.’


‘Wait!’ Grant hissed.


But Robyn had gone.


 


Ralph tried to orientate himself using the location of the elephant clearing relative to the main lodge. He cupped his hand over the mouthpiece of the phone and leaned over to Mr van Rok. ‘Can you circle south? There’s a clearing. Maybe we can land there and collect Dad and the others?’


‘What if the noise brings those bird things running?’ said Luke. ‘If we try and land, it could be a bloodbath.’


‘I can’t believe those things are real,’ said van Rok, shaking his head. ‘In any case, we’ll check out the area. See how close they are to the landing site.’


Ralph watched him talk calmly to the pilot. ‘
Just do it!
’ he wanted to scream. ‘
I just want the rest of my family safe
!’


The helicopter dipped down lower. Robyn’s voice sounded again, excited, over van Rok’s mobile phone. ‘Ralph, I can see you! Wait, I’m going to . . .’ Her voice dropped to a hoarse, frightened whisper: ‘No. No, back up. Ralph, get away.’


Ralph banged on the partition between him and the pilot. ‘Hank, take us up again!’


‘Do it,’ van Rok snapped.


Ralph clutched the phone like it was precious metal. ‘Robyn, what is it?’


‘More terror birds,’ came the trembling whisper. ‘Right beside me.’


OceanofPDF.com













15


Robyn stood frozen in fear. Through the young tree ferns beside her she could see three of the monstrous bird‑creatures they’d fought earlier. They weren’t heading for Grant, Niko and Tanky, but they were surely close enough to smell her. She breathed shallowly through her mouth so as not to alert them to her presence.


After a few seconds, though, Robyn realised that the terror birds were behaving oddly. They were moving stiffly, slowly, almost mechanically, in single file, as if to a pre‑set pattern: puppet sentries in a dead march. Their heads swivelled from left to right and back again, first one, then the second, then the third. They were behaving like no wild animal she’d ever seen.


What’s wrong with them?
 she thought, with a glimmer of pity for the monsters. 
The other ones were ready to tear us apart . . .


Robyn felt the red glare of one of the terror birds through the bracken. As soon as it looked away, she couldn’t help taking a step back. A twig snapped under her foot like a gunshot, and she froze, rigid, waiting for the exultant screech and the ravening attack that would surely follow.


But the creatures lurched on. One paused in front of a tree that blocked its way, then sidestepped to the left to avoid it and kept going. The other two terror birds copied it.


‘Rob,’ came Ralph’s voice, low in her ear over the sat‑phone. ‘What the hell’s happening down there?’


‘Terror birds, but it’s like they’re in a trance,’ Robyn said. ‘I made a noise, but they didn’t react. They’re just . . . walking. Slowly.’


‘Stalking something?’ Ralph suggested.


‘No. They’re not alert like that.’ Robyn struggled to make sense of it. ‘It’s more like . . . they’re on patrol. Hypnotised, or something.’


‘Or programmed?’ Ralph said slowly. ‘Like those giant snakes I saw outside the mine, patrolling the perimeter. Gerhard called them his guard dogs.’


‘The “guard dogs” that attacked us when we picked up the jeep were off the leash,’ Robyn said with a shudder. ‘They tried to tear us apart; they came for us like real predators.’


‘When the titanoboa saw me at the mine, it kind of snapped into life and came at me,’ Ralph reminded her. ‘When I retreated a certain distance, it ignored me. Maybe these terror birds have the same kind of conditioning . . .’


‘Whatever,’ said Robyn. ‘Gerhard must have left them here to frame Dad.’ The terror birds had crashed away through the bushes. ‘Can you see any more?’


‘Probably, if we drop lower. But I don’t know where you are. There are lots of clearings, and I can’t tell which is which from the air.’


‘Hold on,’ said Robyn. ‘I’m just going to find Dad.’ She looked down at the rear‑view mirror she clutched. ‘And don’t worry. You’ll be able to find me.’


‘I’m looking . . .’ Ralph craned his neck, scanning the bushveld below through the helicopter window. Suddenly he was blinded by a coruscating flash. He flinched. ‘Hey!’


‘Whoa!’ Luke had seen it too, and sat bolt upright. ‘Someone’s shooting at us?’


‘I guess you’ve found me,’ Robyn said over the phone.


‘Wait.’ Ralph released a long breath. ‘We’re OK – that’s just reflected sunlight!’


His dad came on the line. ‘Right first time, Ralph,’ he said. ‘Drop down lower and you can check your reflection in the jeep’s rear‑view.’


‘Dad!’ Ralph closed his eyes and hugged the phone, full of relief to hear his father’s familiar voice. But then tears rose in his eyes at the thought of having to tell him about Xai. He quickly changed the subject. ‘It’s an old army comms trick, right? Sending a secure signal that can only be read by someone in line of sight of the mirror.’


‘You’ve been listening to Xai for too long,’ Roland said. ‘How is the little rogue?’


Ralph could hear the smile in his dad’s voice, and it felt like a pointed blade stabbing him. He struggled for words, but none came.


‘And Luke?’ Roland prompted. ‘Things all right?’


Luke leaned forward. ‘All good up here, Mr Ballantyne.’


‘Uh, Dad, wait a second.’ Ralph turned to Mr van Rok. ‘Can we land?’


‘Not here,’ Karl said firmly. ‘We need an area at least the size of a tennis court to touch down safely.’


‘There’s too much detritus on the ground,’ the pilot, Hank, called back. ‘Leaves, dirt. If that debris blows up into the rotor system, we could be in trouble.’


Ralph nodded tersely and spoke into the phone. ‘Dad, which way is the jeep from your position?’


‘North‑north‑west,’ came the instant answer.


‘That looks to be clear. If you and Rob get back to the jeep and signal me, I think I can guide you to the Lodge.’


‘What about the Lodge itself?’ Roland broke in. ‘Any vehicles there? Signs of movement?’


‘No signs,’ Luke reported. ‘Looks like Big Bird’s sticking to the forest.’


‘Well, we’re not out of the woods yet,’ Roland said wryly. ‘The battery’s low on this phone, but we’ll stay on the line. Robyn, let’s move.’


 


Robyn would never forget that fraught ride to Crocodile Lodge: her father at the wheel, steering steadily through patches of mopane and acacia; Ralph’s voice, guiding them like the world’s weirdest satnav – ‘
Terror birds on intersect course, two hundred metres east. Reverse into cover, and I’ll tell you when the path’s clear.
’ The distant noise of the helicopter above became a kind of comfort.


But the tree cover was dense, and Ralph couldn’t spot all the dangers.


Once, Roland stopped the jeep in a thicket before a wide stream, ready to get out and test the integrity of the soil around the bank.


‘The rhino is a hell of a weight on that trailer,’ he’d said. ‘If it gets stuck in the mud, we could be in trouble.’


Robyn nodded, distracted. The rank, sickly‑sweet odour of death hung in the air. The corpse of something big must be hidden beneath the glossy leaves of the waterberry trees on the far side of the stream: something that had been ambushed while drinking, perhaps.


Robyn saw a lifeless paw poking out from the undergrowth with distinctive leopard’s spots and turned her head away.


Just as Roland opened the door, Grant slammed a hand down on his shoulder to stop him.


‘Oh, no,’ Niko breathed. ‘Look.’


The sinister bulk of a terror bird came into view, stalking through the undergrowth. Another, identical in height and build, followed, their heads turning from side to side in unison, scanning the area. Robyn found it deeply disturbing to see them act so robotically. She wondered how much of the jeep was visible. Would the terror birds pick up on them?


Suddenly she heard snarling. A spotted hyena ventured out from behind the waterberries. 
Of course
, she thought, 
any corpse brings carrion
. The whole clan came into view, a show of strength to ward off the possible threat to their feast. Perhaps the hyena mistook the terror birds’ slow, robotic movements for age or infirmity, or maybe they were just spooked by the strangeness of the prehistoric predators.


A third bird‑monster lumbered into view with its clockwork gait. Its presence pushed the hyenas into violence; Robyn held her breath as the clan made a coordinated run at the last terror bird, determined to pick off what they saw as the oldest and weakest, trailing behind.


But the instant the hyenas came snapping up to the predasaur, its robotic movements changed. With a screech, the bird lifted a hyena into the air and stamped its huge‑taloned foot down on another, crushing it into the dirt. Robyn covered her eyes as the other two terror birds doubled back and turned on the hyena clan, attacking them with rampant ferocity. The air was filled with the choppy laughing noise that hyenas used to signal danger to the clan; then the wet crunch of claw on flesh; the snap and thud of beak on bone; the mournful howl and whine of the dying; and the patter of paws as the survivors fled.


When Robyn opened her eyes again, the carnage was over. The stream was crimson with blood, and dismembered hyenas were strewn over the bank. The terror birds didn’t feed on the bloody carcasses. After they preened and drank from the stream, their behaviour grew progressively more robotic again.


‘Look at that,’ Roland murmured. ‘Conditioning taking over again. Like a switch has been flipped.’


‘They’re predators,’ said Niko quietly. ‘They might have been programmed to patrol, but when they come across prey, the instinct to kill overrides everything.’


‘And all humans count as prey. That’s what Gerhard has them looking out for,’ Grant added. ‘But why don’t the predasaurs eat what they kill? They didn’t even eat the leopard carcass.’


‘This way they stay hungry,’ said Robyn. ‘Always in pain. Angry. Ready to kill, but never satisfied.’


‘It’s horrible,’ said Roland. ‘But perhaps we should be grateful that his control over them is quite crude. The terror birds seem triggered by sight, rather than scent, until they get stirred up by aggression.’


‘Noise doesn’t do it for them either,’ Robyn put in. ‘I cracked a twig near one and it didn’t even blink.’


Ralph spoke up on the phone. ‘The kelenken I saw was marked a failure; it couldn’t be controlled,’ he said. ‘But maybe he was terror bird 1.0?’


‘And we’re seeing the next generation,’ Grant concluded. ‘In these things, it’s only sight that triggers the attack response. But maybe Gerhard’s working towards bigger and better things.’


‘Like what?’ said Niko.


Roland sneered. ‘With the president in his pocket, he can violate every law of the land, as well as every law of nature.’


‘Guys, you’d better press on,’ Ralph said. ‘Zuma could be right on our asses. Can you keep heading north?’


From the way the hyenas’ blood soaked only slowly into the earth, Roland decreed it hard enough to support the weight of the trailer, and they continued on their way.


After what felt like a lifetime, the Lodge and its outbuildings appeared through the trees. It was all Robyn could do not to cry. She was home, and everything looked so comfortingly familiar. But after all she’d been through, it was herself she didn’t recognise. She felt as though her old life had happened to somebody else.


Roland pulled up on the concrete driveway and drove around to the animal pens at the rear of the property. If he too was affected by their homecoming, he masked his feelings. Robyn found herself marvelling at how smooth and level the concrete felt under the tyres after so long driving over wild country.


‘A house,’ said Grant, almost dreamily. ‘Not an underground lair. Not some weird Frankenstein lab. Not a cramped truck or a forest of fear or some camp full of poachers, just an actual, normal, proper house.’


‘I’ll sort Tanky out straight away,’ Niko declared.


‘Aaaaand we’re back.’ Grant sighed.


‘Ralph,’ Roland said into the phone, ‘perhaps Mr van Rok could put the copter down on the back lawn?’ He craned his neck to look behind him. ‘Grant, help Robyn and Niko with the rhino, can you? I’ll meet Ralph and Xai at the copter and we’ll check the house. I want to make sure there are no nasty surprises waiting for us.’


 


Ralph closed his eyes as the copter touched down on grass that had been uncut for weeks. The whirr of the rotor blades finally powered down.


Home.


The late afternoon sun was slowly sinking behind the trees. How many times had he watched it set, shooting at targets and dreaming of adventures? Longing to live up to the long list of ancestors who had burned the Ballantyne name into history.


Now he had returned here, the boy who’d got his father’s best friend killed. If he and Robyn had never set foot in Josef Gerhard’s reserve, if they’d never got involved in this whole nightmare, if they’d stayed blissfully ignorant of the corruption growing at the heart of their country . . .


He could almost hear Xai’s voice: 
You did the right thing
.


Or was that wishful thinking?


With a lurch, Ralph saw his dad running over the lawn to greet the copter. Mr van Rok pushed open the door, jumped down, then gestured for Roland to come inside. Ralph saw the sheer delight on his father’s face as he approached, his arms open wide. Then the puzzlement as he saw Ralph, and Luke, but not . . .


‘Xai?’ Roland hesitated, looking around. ‘Where’s Xai?’


Luke stared down at the floor. Ralph drew in a breath that seemed to take forever to arrive. And he saw, hardening on his father’s face, the shock of understanding. The silence drying on his lips.


Ralph just nodded a fraction.


The rotors stopped whirring, and the Earth’s spin with them, as silence settled over the garden in the fading light.


OceanofPDF.com













16


‘Where are all the animals?’ Robyn asked, staring around the empty stalls in the animal health centre. As soon as the automatic door had opened, she’d rushed inside. There had been several animals in the holding area and recovery pens when their nightmare had started. ‘I know Jari was released, but . . .’


‘The staff must have stayed here for days after we left.’ Niko was already looking through the racks of bottles, canisters and IV bags. ‘I’m sure the injured were either transferred or released back into the reserve.’


‘To be hunted by terror birds,’ said Robyn angrily.


‘Wish we could train a couple of them to lift Tanky out of here,’ Grant said, studying the juvenile rhino in the back of the trailer. ‘Save us a job.’


‘Not funny.’ Robyn closed the automatic door to the health centre and eyed Niko as she crossed to the lab and opened the door.


‘What are these facilities used for, Robyn?’ Niko asked.


‘Nothing too fancy,’ she replied. ‘Blood work, diagnostics. Faecal studies.’


‘Cut the crap,’ Grant joked, earning him a look from Robyn.


‘Then I’m guessing the molecular biology equipment, fluorescence microscopes and bioinformatics tools are recent additions.’ Niko turned back to Robyn, looking troubled. ‘All the props to set us up as the monster‑makers, I guess.’


Robyn nodded, watching Niko select different phials and bottles from the shelves. ‘Niko, are you even qualified to work on animals?’


‘As a med student, I used to help a vet in Gauda,’ she said. ‘I’m no expert. But this is an emergency.’


‘How can you operate without veterinary nurses?’ asked Robyn.


‘I have you two, don’t I?’


Grant closed his eyes and groaned. ‘I guess.’


Niko tapped her fingers against some thick books with cracked spines. ‘And I have these manuals, so I can work out the correct doses of butorphanol and midazolam to send Tanky to dreamland.’ She selected a book, checked the index, then turned to a page. ‘What I haven’t seen is any pure oxygen to deliver sevoflurane, to keep Tanky safely asleep while I cut him open.’


‘Funny.’ Robyn frowned. ‘We used it to put Jari under for operations on his injuries. There was plenty.’


‘Well, there’s not now.’ Niko turned to another shelf. ‘Hopefully I can find an alternative approach. Medetomidine hydrochloride? Ketamine . . . Oh, Robyn, have you got a universal scanner? While I do this, you could find the microchip for me. It’d be good to know the bullet didn’t damage it.’


‘On it.’ Robyn crossed to a drawer and pulled out the scanner, a handheld device the size of a large TV remote.


‘What if it can’t read the microchip’s frequency?’ Grant wondered.


‘There aren’t that many options,’ Robyn said simply. ‘Keep your fingers crossed. A chip will likely be placed between his shoulder blades . . .’ She reached between the bars, playing the device over Tanky’s back, not quite touching his matted woolly fur. The device’s screen lit up green and it gave a victorious chime. ‘There you go! Looks like it’s in one of the neck folds.’


‘The bullet didn’t miss by much,’ said Niko gravely.


The juvenile’s eyes were open now, glaring, and in the electric light of the recovery pen, they looked way more red than pink. Robyn suddenly recognised that giving the rhino a cute name had been foolish; any animal as powerful as a rhino had to be respected and this one had almost killed Ralph, despite its age. And after being cooped up for so long . . . Robyn wasn’t sure if she’d be able to soothe the rhino as she had before, nor how cooperative he would prove to be.


‘How do we even get him out of the trailer?’ Grant asked. ‘It took a block and tackle to get his crate into it, back at the mine.’


‘We have an adapted forklift here,’ Robyn explained. ‘We can sedate him, then take the cage down to floor level. We’ve got a soft harness that’ll fit around his jaws with a rope attached, so we’ll be able to lead him out.’


Grant grimaced. ‘Sure he won’t be leading 
us
?’


‘I’ll give him enough tranquiliser to make him docile,’ said Niko, loading a dart gun. ‘Then we’ll open the side of the cage and help him to his deluxe hospital suite. Or the holding pen, anyway.’ She nodded to a bed of cement with a drainage channel and hefty restraint straps. ‘Now I know the proper doses for a juvenile rhino of around Tanky’s weight. We’ll have to hope it’s similar for its prehistoric cousin.’


‘Well, I hope you’ve got the balance right,’ said Robyn. ‘He’s no pushover.’


‘I’m just glad he’s not fully grown,’ said Grant. He crossed to the forklift beside the door to the pens and studied the controls dubiously. ‘Haven’t tried one of these since Dane let me loose at the opening of his green foods warehouse store.’


Robyn smiled wryly. ‘Well, it’s not a crate of chickpeas you’ll be moving today.’ She watched as, after some initial judders, Grant moved the forklift into position. Niko fired a dart into the woolly rhino’s neck, and Tanky’s eyes soon flickered shut. Then Grant slid the forklift’s extended steel prongs into grooves in the base of the cage. Once they’d locked into place, the delicate business of shifting a 400‑kilogram rhino began.


Robyn only relaxed a little when the crate was down beside the holding pen and she’d fitted the harness over Tanky’s head and neck so he would be unable to open his powerful jaws. The animal barely stirred as Robyn helped Niko unbolt the cross‑iron strips, ready to lift up the side of the crate.


‘This is all so improvised,’ Niko said sadly. ‘If we can’t get him out of there and into a position where we can strap him down –’


‘Hey.’ Grant had returned the forklift to its parking spot on the far wall, and seemed to be looking at something. ‘This is weird,’ he called across. ‘A wire or something.’


Robyn looked over. ‘On a day like today, you find a wire weird?’


‘I’ve only just seen it. A fine wire. Like fishing line, almost. Look, one end’s attached to the door.’ He stepped hurriedly away and lowered his voice. ‘When the door opened, the wire must have been pulled tight.’


‘Nothing happened, though,’ said Robyn, crossing to see.


‘Can we focus?’ Niko said, steel edging her tone as she loaded another dart into her tranq gun. Tanky was grunting and hissing, trying to roll back to his feet. ‘I’m standing by ready to put him out again, but he’s a predasaur. Chances are, he secretes more adrenaline to maintain aggression. That will affect the dose –’


‘Niko, this wire is new.’ Robyn looked over to her. ‘It must have been set up after we left.’


‘What, a booby trap, you mean?’ Niko frowned. ‘Well, like you said, nothing’s happened yet.’


‘It leads to something under that tarp.’ Grant advanced cautiously towards some boxes that were covered in a blue plastic sheet. ‘I hear a weird hissing – and what’s that other sound?’


There was a staccato scraping noise, a rough, sharp 
chik‑chik
. The weathered tarpaulin twitched.


‘Oh my God!’ Robyn’s voice died away to a choked gasp when an immense scorpion – glistening black and the size of a large dog – crept into view. Robyn thought she would be sick. She had always been scared of scorpions, but 
this
 thing . . . It seemed both ancient and alien, primordial fear made flesh.


Its segmented body glistened like burnished armour. Robyn’s eyes flicked from its menacing claws to the venomous point of its tail. The scorpion paused and its stinger arched over to scrape against its own abdomen. Robyn shivered when she heard the 
chik‑chik
 again. Its crimson eyes, multifaceted and glistening, seemed to scan its surroundings.


Then it ran at Robyn.


With a shout, she turned and pelted away over the concrete, but the scorpion scuttled after her, its eight legs carrying it with horrible speed. Niko screamed. Robyn realised she was leading the monster straight towards her and changed course. Then she saw that Grant was chasing her too – no, he was chasing the scorpion. With a hoarse yell, he kicked it to one side. It flew through the air and landed against some crates, but quickly righted itself, its huge dark telson quivering, ready to hook itself through flesh.


‘It’s like they crossed an emperor scorpion with that sea scorpion thing back at the mine,’ Grant said.


Then a second giant scorpion crawled out from under the tarp, its tail twitching as if scenting prey. Its limbs clattered on the concrete as it moved over to block the approach to the automatic door.


‘Is that deliberate?’ Grant asked. ‘Is it programmed?’


‘Maybe. Until its predator instincts take over,’ said Robyn.


‘Rob, Grant, I’ll distract this one,’ Niko said slowly, aiming the dart gun at the first scorpion. ‘Get to the lab and close the door. They won’t be able to get you . . .’ She tailed off and swore as a third identical monster scorpion scuttled out from the lab. Switching targets, she fired at the creature. The dart bounced harmlessly off its tough, chitinous skin.


‘Can we reach the quarantine bay?’ Robyn asked, pointing. Grant ran in that direction but again, one of the sinister creatures scuttled out to block his way.


‘They’re everywhere!’ Grant shouted. ‘We’re trapped.’


The four monster scorpions slowly advanced. Robyn backed away until she came up against a rack of cleaning supplies.


‘Roland!’ Niko shouted helplessly.


Robyn saw a bottle of peracetic acid. Diluted with water, it made an excellent veterinary disinfectant and sterilising agent. She’d heard her dad and Xai warn her a hundred times over the years that concentrated peracetic acid was highly corrosive to the skin, eyes and respiratory systems of humans and animals.


She grabbed a bottle and twisted off the cap. As if sensing danger, the scorpions scurried forward, their stingers glistening in the electric light.


With a yell, Robyn squeezed the bottle. The acidic liquid shot out, dousing the nearest creature. Immediately it arched its body, convulsing. Robyn splashed the second one and it retreated, clattering against Tanky’s cage. The woolly rhino stirred.


Grant clutched his throat. ‘Rob, the fumes . . .’


Niko was holding her sleeve to her mouth and nose, but her eyes were red and watering. ‘They’ll burn our lungs out. We need ventilation.’


Robyn nodded, coughing and choking. Her throat felt raw and, from the searing pain in her hands, she knew the acid must have splashed on her skin. Grant was already staggering across to the door control; he slammed a palm against the button and the metal doors clanked slowly open.


‘We’ve got to get out of here,’ he shouted.


But then a muffled roar sounded from the cage, followed by the dull thud of bone on metal. The scorpion’s stinger was inside the cage and Tanky was smashing his stump of a horn against it. The harness around his head protected him from the gripping claws, the scorpion’s telson turning to sticky black pulp under his attack. But in his panic, the enraged rhino had wedged his horn between the bars, and when he lifted his head, he was able to prise open the cage door.


‘He’s getting loose!’ Robyn yelled through choking sobs. She fell to her knees.


A bristling black shape ran across the floor towards her, its red eyes like laser sights zeroing in on her own. A claw, hard as metal, scissored onto her hair. The scorpion yanked her head to the floor while its stinger weaved above her face like a black cobra ready to strike.


OceanofPDF.com













17


Robyn closed her eyes as the tail of the huge scorpion waved over her head. Then vibrations shook the floor, her hair was released, and she fell backwards.


Tanky had staggered free of the crate, stamping on the scorpion as he did so. Unleashed, the woolly rhino now stood before Robyn, barely half a metre away, watching her through weeping scarlet eyes. The harness was stained dark with fluid from the crushed scorpion, and the end of the lead rope trailed on the wet floor. Tanky was groaning and rasping for breath.


‘You saved me,’ she said between coughs, holding up her hands in what she hoped was a calming gesture. ‘It’s OK. You’ll be OK.’


The rhino just stared at her.


She saw Grant spraying the other two scorpions with great gouts of what smelled like bleach. The creatures lay twitching on the floor, dying. Her nostrils and throat were burning, but still she tried to reach the juvenile rhino. ‘Don’t be scared, boy. They’re gone. You’re safe . . .’


Niko had picked up the dart gun from the shelf and now fired a tranquiliser into the woolly rhino’s rump. Tanky turned sharply towards her, then swayed dangerously.


‘We’ve got to get him back in the crate,’ Robyn said, and coughed, a horrible hacking noise. ‘There’s acid everywhere. If he falls over in this, he’ll be in such pain.’


‘Just take it slowly,’ said Niko.


Like there’s another way
, thought Robyn. She got up, shivering, mindful of the toxic puddle spreading over the concrete. Carefully, she took hold of the rope, pulling Tanky away. She looked down at the mushed, twisted remains of the giant scorpions and felt sick. ‘Grant, what were those things?’


‘Difficult to love,’ Grant concluded. Still coughing, he helped Robyn steer Tanky back into the crate. ‘Gerhard or his people must have left them here when they were framing you guys.’


‘Evidence that kills,’ said Robyn with a shudder. ‘A trap for us? Or for anyone who came looking? More “proof” that we’re the evil genius bad guys.’


‘Either way, bad for Ballantynes,’ Grant agreed, helping Robyn close the crate again. ‘What made you think of using the acid?’


‘Desperation,’ Robyn admitted, coughing again. ‘Scorpions have four sets of lungs – they take in air through tiny openings in their bodies.’


‘And acid and bleach with it. Unlucky, scorps.’ Grant winced and cleared his throat. ‘Unlucky us, too. I’m telling you, that wire must have tripped something when we opened the door.’ He advanced slowly on the tarp, gripped one edge and swept it away in one swift movement, like a magician pulling a tablecloth from under some crockery.


Underneath were two gas cylinders.


‘Now we know what happened to your pure oxygen!’ Grant said, crouching to inspect the cylinders. Both were taped to the floor. ‘They’ve been opened.’


‘Close the valves, then,’ said Robyn.


‘If there’s any oxygen left, we can use it to deliver the sevoflurane,’ said Niko. ‘Hopefully it’ll keep Tanky under while I operate.’


Robyn nodded, and she and Niko went to join Grant beside the canisters.


‘Careful,’ he said as they approached. He had pulled one of the canisters free and was studying it closely. ‘Plenty left. It can’t have been open long.’


Robyn checked the gauge on the canister, then looked around furtively. ‘Someone else must be here.’


‘Then why rig the wire like that?’ said Grant. ‘Look, there’s the remains of a tiny glass vial in the tape here. The wire tightened around the glass as the door pulled it taut, and the vial broke open.’


‘Wonder what was inside?’ said Robyn. ‘Still, it can’t explain how the canister opened itself.’


‘Perhaps it can,’ Niko said thoughtfully. ‘What if the vial held a chemical trigger? A pheromone, or some scent the scorpion’s programmed to respond to – designed to wake it up and do whatever Gerhard’s chip tells it to?’


‘Snakes, birds, now arachnids?’ Robyn shivered. ‘It’s horrible. All this can’t be just to make a nastier video game. What is Gerhard really up to?’


‘I don’t know.’ Niko inspected the canister. ‘But thank heavens there’s some oxygen left. I’ll get the tubing and mouthpiece – young Tanky can breathe this until the fumes clear.’


Suddenly Robyn heard running footsteps. She tensed. But it was only Luke.


‘Hey!’ she said, mustering a weary smile. ‘Glad you could drop in.’


Luke recoiled, covering his nose and mouth. ‘Ugh! What the hell happened here?’


‘Project Scorpio,’ said Grant, crossing to shake the boy’s hand. ‘Good to see you.’


But Luke was holding himself very still, looking down at the ground. ‘Yeah, yeah . . . you too, bruh. But I need you guys to come with me. Cos . . .’


‘What?’ Robyn felt her stomach lurch. ‘What’s happened?’


‘Ralph said he wants to tell you himself –’


‘I said, what 
happened
?’ she shouted.


Luke turned and loped away. With an anxious glance at Grant and Niko, Robyn hurried after him.


 


Over the past few weeks, Grant had spent plenty of time picturing how it would be to visit Robyn at her house. Had imagined them sharing a quiet, normal evening. Now, as he sat in the Ballantynes’ living room and looked at her, Robyn seemed a million miles away. Her eyes were glassy and wet as she perched on the couch, staring into space.


Having lost his own mentor to Gerhard and Mbato, Grant felt he understood something of what she was going through. He hadn’t known Xai for long, but he’d both liked and respected the stocky ex‑soldier. He wanted to talk fondly to Robyn of Xai’s dry humour and firm moral compass, or even try to comfort her, hold her hand. Instead, he found he didn’t dare say anything, or even sit beside her – just as he would never approach a wild animal he’d found. Grant knew about Robyn’s affinity for animals, the kinship with them she felt, and there was something of the aloofness of a big cat in the way she held herself now, silent and still, sufficient to herself.


Instead, he’d made mugs of hot, sweet tea that no one was drinking. He sat alone, on a kitchen chair. Perhaps he should be helping the van Roks; they were down the corridor in Roland’s office, trying to hack the security cameras in Gerhard’s reserve for the precious proof they needed. Luke’s dad had already managed to open the Kelenken Scorpio folder, but it had contained no damning evidence, only details of the experiments and procedures that had been performed to create the terror birds and scorpions. If anyone found it in their hands right now, Grant knew they would seem guiltier than ever.


He couldn’t think of much he could do to help the van Roks, but he could always lend Niko a hand in the animal centre, hosing bleach and acid from the concrete and checking through the remains of the giant scorpions: if they had data chips inside those armoured exoskeletons, then perhaps they wouldn’t need Tanky – which would save a lot of effort trying to move him around.


And Grant couldn’t imagine they had long before Captain Zuma came calling.


Ralph sat at the other end of the couch, turned away from Robyn. It was as if Xai’s death had driven a wedge between them. Perhaps Ralph felt that Robyn blamed him in some way for the death of their old friend and mentor, or perhaps he knew her well enough not to talk to her right now. Either way, Ralph’s features were twisted in a hurt he couldn’t seem to comprehend; as if the scale of it left him lost. Grant imagined that Ralph was feeling not only his own pain, but his sister’s too.


And his dad’s.


Roland Ballantyne was a veteran of the Recces: a man used to blood, death and sacrifice. He’d lost people close to him, of course – his wife, Robyn and Ralph’s mother, included. And to look at him now, you’d think he was simply pensive: weighing up options, calculating plans. But Grant had spent weeks on the road with this man in the tightest of situations. Always he had seen the spark of action and energy in the man’s eyes, whether captive or bloodied or sleep‑deprived.


But that spark had gone today. Now there was only a blunted calm in Roland Ballantyne; he seemed not so much a man as a holding pattern.


When Ralph had told them the news, Niko had broken down in sobs and tried to hold Roland. But he’d shrugged her off, told her that they could not waste time in grief or self‑pity; they had to use the chance Xai had bought them to keep searching for proof of Gerhard’s involvement, and for any incriminating audio of him with the president that Luke and his dad could scrape from the CCTV footage.


They were fine words, of course. They might even have been inspiring if said with kindness or passion. But to Grant, the words sounded cold and flat. He wondered how Roland felt now: a man of action, unable to act. Unable even to mourn. A soldier left dependent on technology, never more aware of his mortality.


And Grant had the uneasy feeling that Ralph and Robyn had seen the same change in Roland, and that they were grieving not just for their friend, but for the passing of the invulnerable, indomitable father they had known all their lives.


Trying to distract himself from the oppressive silence, Grant found a tablet charging in the kitchen and used it to see what the news was saying about himself and the Ballantynes. There was nothing good, but nothing new either – no warnings that these dangerous fugitives were on their way back to civilisation.


Feeling sick at the way his name had been trashed online, he left the news sites. Armed with some of the facts pulled from the Scorpio folder, Grant decided to look online for more on the creatures that had attacked them in the animal centre.


‘
Pulmonoscorpius
,’ he announced, looking up from the screen. ‘A type of oversized scorpion that lived in the early Carboniferous period, around three hundred and thirty million years ago. That’s what we blitzed back there – or Gerhard’s predasaur tribute act to the original, at least.’


Robyn gave a distant nod. Ralph and Roland didn’t respond.


‘The atmosphere was different when those things lived,’ he went on. ‘Richer in oxygen. That must be why they needed the canisters to enrich the air, to make the critters more at home. Get the best from them, you know?’


Ralph glanced over at him. ‘That’s Xai’s tablet,’ he said.


‘Put it down, Grant,’ Roland said calmly.


Grant did so at once, the polite instruction more biting than an angry shout.


‘Call your father,’ Roland went on, and tossed him the jeep’s emergency phone. ‘I need to know where his safe house is. This place won’t remain any kind of refuge for much longer.’


‘Sure,’ Grant said nervously, wondering if his dad was still all right. A morbid image of Max Khumalo lying dead on the floor, surrounded by scorpions, filled his head. Quickly, he walked from the room into the cooler hall outside and dialled his dad’s number.


It had barely rung before Max Khumalo answered. ‘Grant! You’re OK?’


‘So they tell me,’ Grant said. ‘Are you? Is your safe house still secure?’


‘Are you planning on coming here?’


Grant heard the tension in his father’s voice. ‘We need a safe place to lie low. Honest, Dad, I wouldn’t ask if our lives didn’t depend –’


‘Yes, all right. Of course.’ A pause. ‘Well. Do you remember that landscape your mother painted?’


‘What?’


‘Remember? That’s where you’ll find me . . . in the pink.’


‘Uh . . . OK.’ 
In the pink?
 Grant realised that his father didn’t want to name the safe house out loud in case Mbato had infiltrated their comms security. He couldn’t mean the obvious one: the view from the Rietvlei Dam, painted by his mother before he was born and hanging in their living room at home. There were no houses in sight there. And then he knew. Of course – his dad was talking about a tiny canvas in the kitchen, the size of his hand, depicting the leafy streets of upscale Muckleneuk beyond the Austin Roberts Bird Sanctuary. As a boy, Grant had always loved to walk past a particular grand building there, painted pink as if in honour of his favourite bird, the pink‑backed pelican. He recalled that a wealthy sponsor of the Green Freedom Party had bought the building.


‘Got it. I know where you are, Dad,’ Grant said.


‘Be discreet. Please, you must. You know I’m risking everything.’ And he hung up.


Everything?
 thought Grant. 
You don’t know the first thing about risk
.


He jumped as the front door opened, but it was only Niko, looking drawn and exhausted, red chemical burns on her hands and around her eyes. She smiled briefly at Grant, then looked at the living‑room door. ‘Are they all right in there?’


‘I think “all right” is a long way away,’ Grant said. ‘How’d you get on?’


‘The scorpion chips are a molten mess,’ Niko said dismally, ‘like the rest of their insides.’


‘Bang goes our chance to take a more portable predasaur as proof,’ said Grant. ‘Is Tanky OK?’


‘His breathing is irregular; the fumes may have damaged his lungs.’ She sighed. ‘After all that stress, he’s in no state to be operated on . . .’


Then cheers went up from the office, making Grant jump. Luke and his dad burst out from inside. ‘Got it!’ Luke said, punching the air. ‘Proof!’


‘We couldn’t ask for better,’ Mr van Rok added. ‘Once we skimmed the audio and boosted it through a filter –’


‘It’s clear as day.’ Luke gestured for Grant and Niko to follow him inside. ‘Check it!’


Grant scanned the small, minimalist office; the first thing he checked for was scorpions. Satisfied the place was clear, he saw that a video was waiting to play on an old PC. The still image showed two shadowy figures.


‘We can lighten the video, with the right software,’ said Mr van Rok, hitting the space bar on the keyboard beneath the monitor.


The video buffered and the image jerked into noisy, hissy life.


‘Ballantyne and Xai have been cruising Pretoria,’ came Mbato’s distinctive voice, ‘talking to old army colleagues about Gauda. He must’ve figured out that the explosion was no accident. And a sample of the virus has turned up at a biomedical company –’


‘SangoMed?’ Gerhard said. ‘Ballantyne’s girlfriend works there. How the hell did she get a sample of the virus?’


‘I don’t know. What about that programmer who worked for you, who infected the whole of Gauda – Stefan Jacobs? Or his girlfriend, perhaps?’


‘We’ve got her under lock and key with our other nuisances,’ said Gerhard, ‘and we’ve dealt with the doctor Stefan went to in Pretoria . . .’


‘You’re right,’ said Grant. ‘This is gold.’


Luke shushed him. ‘Listen.’


‘I need the people’s votes for my third term in office,’ Mbato was saying. ‘You need me to 
get
 that third term if you want your plans to play out. And if what’s happened here goes public, I’ll bring you down with me.’


Gerhard was shaking his head. ‘Oh, Julius, for God’s sake, relax. Shrinker’s secured all medical notes from the Gauda hospital, and we’re working to understand how the virus crossed over from the predasaurs. In the meantime, we have ways to keep Ballantyne 
and
 his girlfriend silent.’


‘Not any more you don’t,’ Niko hissed, clapping her hands. ‘Ballantyne and his “girlfriend” are going to shout about this from the rooftops!’


Luke stopped the video as Roland joined them in the room. He looked at Mr van Rok. ‘You did it, I take it?’


‘All uploaded to the cloud,’ said Luke. ‘We can access it from anywhere.’


‘I’d like a copy saved to a jump drive,’ said Roland. ‘And a hard copy transcript too, for reading on the move.’


‘I can do that,’ Grant offered, wanting to feel useful. ‘I’m a pretty fast typist.’


‘Good. Get on with it,’ said Roland. ‘If we can get this to Max Khumalo – with the predasaur rhino and its Gerhard chip as real, physical proof – things could finally turn around for us.’


Mr van Rok looked at Roland in surprise. ‘I can’t transport that rhino by helicopter.’


‘He’s a juvenile,’ said Robyn, who’d come in behind her dad. ‘He doesn’t weigh that much.’


‘That copter’s for executive travel,’ van Rok said. ‘There’s no winch, no fastening gear to fix an animal crate to the sleds.’


Robyn kept trying. ‘If we tranquilise him, maybe he can go inside?’


‘Far too dangerous,’ Niko said. ‘You know he doesn’t respond to drugs like a regular animal, Rob.’


‘And you don’t know how dangerous he can be,’ Ralph added.


‘I think you’re all missing the real danger,’ van Rok said. ‘Gerhard can pick up signals from the data chips.’


Luke nodded. ‘He uses them to track the animals on his reserve.’


‘That’s short range, though,’ Robyn argued. ‘We’re a lot further away from Gerhard’s reserve, and we’ll put more distance between us when we start travelling.’


‘But you don’t know that the chips can’t piggyback on wifi,’ said van Rok. ‘If they monitor life signs and electrochemical activity, they could be programmed to send automated updates over email.’


‘Maybe in a more urban area,’ Roland said. ‘Transporting him is a risk, sure. But then, what isn’t? And we need experts to study a live predasaur, to analyse the work that’s gone into creating it – and to realise that it would take expertise and resources we don’t possess.’ He looked around at all of them, and Grant saw the shadows behind his eyes. ‘Meantime, Karl, you and Luke take this evidence to Grant’s father in your copter.’


‘I’ll go with you,’ said Grant. ‘I’ll make sure you get his help.’


‘And you?’ said Luke, looking at the Ballantynes.


‘We need every bit of evidence we can find,’ Roland said. ‘Ralph, Robyn, Niko and I will take that rhino into Pretoria another way.’ Roland’s lip curled, as something colder in him took hold. ‘For weeks, we’ve been threatened. Hunted. Put through hell. But by having Xai killed, Mbato’s declared full‑on war.’ He nodded slowly. ‘And if a war is what he and Gerhard want . . . that’s what they’re going to get.’


OceanofPDF.com













18


In his private quarters, Gerhard closed his eyes and savoured the feel of his clean, fresh linen shirt against his skin and the plush pile carpet under his bare feet. He took a deep breath and slowly exhaled; the world made sense again.


He finished getting changed, reflecting that his old clothes – the ones he’d been trapped in for days – would have to be burned. Outside the window, the fires were out and the last of the dark smoke had cleared. The dead, both human and animal, had been cleared away by Captain Zuma and her men, but the damage to his complex was all too clear: scorch marks and bloodstains on the paved courtyard; twisted, blackened metal – all that was left of the warehouse pens; the mangled military helicopter lying like a giant bug squashed beneath a giant’s heel.


It was a pity that so many of his predasaurs had been killed in the carnage. They represented valuable research, and their loss would mean replicating a lot of work. But at least Xai’s body was included among the human detritus in the morgue. Gerhard remembered his exchange with Roland Ballantyne in the freight lift.


I told you that you’d be sorry . . .


But it concerned him that Ralph and Luke had escaped the compound. The identity of their rescuers was not yet known, but Gerhard had unpleasant suspicions. Was it Khumalo and his Green Freedom Party fanatics? Ballantyne himself racing to the rescue? The fool was resourceful enough, after all.


There was a brisk tap at the door.


Gerhard assumed a languid posture. ‘Come,’ he said.


President Mbato strode inside. He didn’t bother to conceal his smile. ‘You look like hell, Gerhard.’


‘I’ve been there,’ Gerhard replied coolly. ‘Thanks to the ineptitude of your military goons, Ballantyne and his pathetic band were free to clap me in irons and treat me no better than an animal. Me!’ He shook his head, crossed to his drinks cabinet and selected a bottle of Port Ellen thirty‑seven‑year‑old single malt whisky. ‘Now all but one of them’s escaped – and Ballantyne’s son and the van Rok boy left in a helicopter. Who is helping them?’


Mbato grunted his displeasure. ‘Zuma’s looking into it.’


‘Have you forgotten that helicopters operate in controlled airspace?’ Gerhard unscrewed the lid and took a calming sniff of the expensive, peaty aroma. ‘They could be anywhere by now. Saying 
anything
.’


‘Our country’s in lockdown, remember?’ said Mbato. ‘I’ve got a military‑enforced no‑fly zone imposed over Pretoria. We’ll pick up that helicopter.’ He shrugged. ‘In any case, those boys have been discredited in the public eye. They’re radicalised enemies of the state. They’d tell any lie to save their own skins.’


‘Such a shame they couldn’t save Xai’s.’ Gerhard poured two measures of the costly amber liquid. ‘Oh, I wish I could see Ballantyne’s face when he hears that his little rogue is dead.’


‘It’s useful timing with the election just two weeks away.’ Mbato took the whisky from Gerhard without comment and crossed to the window. ‘By bringing to justice one of the terrorists who inflicted this virus on the world, the people will see I am both tough and effective on crime.’


Gerhard rolled his eyes as he took a sip of his own drink. To hear Mbato, you’d think he actually believed that the Ballantynes 
were
 to blame. ‘That might give you a bump in the approval ratings, I suppose?’


‘It had better,’ said Mbato. ‘Given that Max Khumalo still lives. Your scorpion snare was a complete failure. An intern died in Khumalo’s place; it’s driven him into hiding.’


‘So, my 
pulmonoscorpius
 still killed, just as their programming dictates. Excellent.’ Gerhard shrugged. ‘Surely you can use the error to your advantage. Say that Xai was responsible for the plot and you’ve dealt with him, so it’s safe for Khumalo to come out of hiding. If he doesn’t, he’ll seem weak.’


‘And I will seem the stronger man for rescuing a rival,’ Mbato said thoughtfully. ‘Yes. That will cut through the Green Freedom Party propaganda that claims I’m trying to rig the election.’ He drained his whisky in a single gulp and laughed. ‘You know, it’s admirable, the way I work so tirelessly to protect the democratic process . . .’


Gerhard couldn’t help sniggering. Then a sudden rap at the door cooled the mood. ‘Who –’


‘Captain Zuma, sir,’ came a clipped voice from the other side of the oak.


‘Enter,’ snapped Mbato.


Zuma opened the door and stepped smartly inside with a salute as stiff as her tone. ‘Forgive the interruption, Mr President. You requested that I keep you informed regarding the rogue helicopter.’


‘Where is it?’ Mbato demanded.


‘Whereabouts as yet unknown, sir,’ Zuma went on. ‘But the copter is registered to VanRok Security.’


‘That’s all we need,’ said Gerhard tersely. ‘Van Rok knows too much about our –’


‘Thank you, Zuma,’ Mbato broke in heavily. ‘You are to find that helicopter and destroy it.’


Zuma looked at Gerhard and seemed to hesitate. A nerve twitched in her temple. ‘Destroy a civilian vehicle, sir?’


‘You’d question my direct order?’ Mbato rose to his full, imposing height, as if squaring up to her. ‘Let me be clear, Captain. This civilian vehicle was stolen by terrorists. Karl van Rok of VanRok Security reported it stolen to me himself, just this afternoon. It is on a terrorist mission that will end the lives of countless citizens. I want it found and destroyed without delay. You understand?’


‘Sir, yes, sir!’ Zuma saluted again, turned smartly and marched out of the office.


‘This is not good.’ Gerhard crossed to the door and closed it before rounding on Mbato. ‘With the van Rok boy free, we have no power over his father. He could go public over our blackmailing him.’


‘
Your
 blackmailing him, you mean.’ Mbato smiled tightly. ‘This can’t be tied to me. But you can relax. He’s got no hard evidence beyond what his son says.’


‘And anyway, if Zuma takes care of the helicopter, as you’ve ordered her to, it’s bound to solve at least some of our problems. Karl van Rok might even be on it himself,’ mused Gerhard. ‘And I have a way to sort out the Ballantynes too. They’ve taken one of my predasaurs with them.’


‘One that’s been chipped so it can send signals back to you?’ Mbato glared at Gerhard. ‘That would make compelling evidence.’


‘But that chip also allows me to track them, at least when they’re close to a carrier signal. They’re at Crocodile Lodge right now.’


Mbato nearly spilled his drink. ‘And you’re only telling me this now? I’ll send a team. They’ll be dead within the hour.’


‘So impetuous, Julius.’ Gerhard held up a hand. ‘They won’t be there in an hour. Roland has too much sense to stay there. They’ll try to get to allies.’


‘Max Khumalo,’ sneered Mbato. ‘He’s got to be involved. So, Zuma will track that helicopter and you will track your predasaur. We’ll get eyes on all our enemies . . .’ Mbato held out his empty glass to be refilled. ‘Soon, they’ll all be dead.’


OceanofPDF.com













19


Grant had never ridden in a helicopter before. The sun was setting, and Pretoria stretched out below, a captivating mosaic of natural beauty and urban sprawl. He looked down at the well‑planned streets lined with thousands of jacaranda trees. It was eerie to see the roads so empty, with lockdown in full effect. In the distance to the north, the rugged Magaliesberg Mountains offered a picturesque promise of freedom beyond the suburbs and skyscrapers.


In your dreams
, thought Grant. He looked down at the imposing Union Buildings on Meintjieskop Hill, where government sat and the president had his offices. His father had worked for so long to be president. Now he was close, closer than he’d ever been.


But if Max Khumalo did make it, would the power corrupt him as it had Julius Mbato?


‘Bet you’re looking forward to seeing your old man, right?’ said Luke.


Grant shrugged. ‘It’s been a while.’ He’d known since the long journey from Gerhard’s mine in the Casspir that help from his dad was vital to the Ballantynes staying one step ahead of their enemies. In a city that had turned against them, it made sense to approach the man who hated what Mbato stood for as much as they did. If they got him on side, his dad would make a powerful ally, able to use Green Freedom Party resources to help Robyn, Ralph, Roland and Niko, ready for a final stand.


Given Roland’s murderous frame of mind, Grant was a little worried what form that final stand might take.


‘I have to admit, your father wouldn’t normally get my vote. But knowing what I know now about Mbato . . .’ said Mr van Rok.


‘Do you think he’ll help us?’ Luke asked Grant. ‘I mean, he’d help 
you
, right?’


‘I guess.’ Grant sighed. ‘Thing is, when you ask but don’t get, time after time, you learn not to ask at all.’


‘And then you have to steam in with an ask as big as this.’ Mr van Rok shook his head wearily. ‘Well, let’s hope he’s where you think he is. We need him.’


Grant nodded. His mum had died a year after he was born, and his dad had filled the void with political ambition. Raised by a succession of nannies, and with his dad a benign but distant presence, Grant had learned to become self‑sufficient in many ways. But that didn’t mean that he didn’t want his father’s attention, and he’d learned early on that rebelling against his authority was the one sure‑fire way to get it. He’d always felt closer to Dane Mellanby: his godfather and chairman of the Green Freedom Party.


Surely
, thought Grant, 
the chance to avenge Dane will be enough to get Dad onside
. But he couldn’t be sure of this, and it made him feel so lonely inside.


Robyn, I miss you.


‘I still can’t get over how quiet the city is,’ said van Rok, breaking Grant’s reverie.


‘What worries me,’ called Hank from the front of the chopper, ‘is that we’re out in a lockdown and no one’s challenging us.’


‘They didn’t challenge us before,’ van Rok countered.


‘True, but we weren’t anywhere near an urban airspace,’ Hank said. ‘You’d think someone would’ve picked up a blatant violation like this.’


‘Maybe they think we’re first responders,’ said Luke. ‘Or else we’ve literally slipped under the radar. Don’t jinx it, bruh!’


‘The real question,’ Grant noted, ‘is how we discreetly land in a suburban neighbourhood and walk away without anyone seeing us.’


‘I’ll drop you all in a park,’ said the pilot. ‘Anyone tracking the copter won’t see where you then go on foot. And then I’ll take the copter back to the VanRok Tower.’


‘You will not,’ van Rok retorted. ‘Drop us, then abandon the copter a few miles from here to muddy the trail, and get yourself somewhere safe. Call my wife and tell her we’re fine. That I’ll contact her as soon as I can.’


Hank tilted the control stick backwards and saluted. ‘Whatever you say, Mr van Rok.’


Grant felt sick as the helicopter plunged towards the park – and not just from the rush and pitch of their descent. 
On the run again
, he thought. 
Different faces, but still the same dangers
.


The helicopter touched down in Magnolia Dell Park, its rotors blowing the hell out of the weeping willows nearby. The green, open space connected four neighbourhoods; them landing there might slow down pursuers trying to work out where they were headed. 
At least the van Roks aren’t wanted for crimes against humanity
, Grant reflected. 
Stick behind them; let them lead the way
.


They put on surgical masks and headed north‑east out of the park, Luke and his father walking either side of Grant as he hurried to the safe house.


Through the stiff blue fabric covering his mask, Grant muttered, ‘Here goes everything.’


 


As the nocturnal river noises rose up around him, Ralph couldn’t help but wish he was back in the helicopter. He’d watched it recede in the sky over Crocodile Lodge, the fading noise of the rotors like a drowning man’s final shout for help.


Now darkness had fallen, a second‑rate pretender to Ralph’s black mood. He’d spent so long desperate to get home, and now here they were, leaving almost as soon as they’d arrived.


‘Our best chance of escape is by river,’ his dad had announced ten minutes ago. ‘There’s good cover to hide us from above, and I don’t think they’d expect us to choose the slow option. We’ll take Xai’s old boat – it’s moored under camouflage netting a hundred metres downriver – and follow the river down to Malelane. From there we’ll call Grant, who’ll hopefully have made it to the city by then, and see what his father can do for us, then we’ll steal transport and take the N4 straight into Pretoria with Tanky. Any questions?’


The question Ralph had wanted to ask was ‘Are you all right, Dad?’


All his life, he’d thought of his dad as supremely capable – invincible, even. But since learning of Xai’s death, Ralph could see desperation behind his dad’s eyes as he fought to hold things together. When their mum had died, he and Robyn had been too young and absorbed in their own grief to consider how their father must be feeling. He had always seemed so strong and assured, striding through life, watching out for his family. The idea that he could be vulnerable or feel low seemed ridiculous . . .


Until today.


Ralph had felt a sense of impending tragedy as Roland raided his own depleted stores for arms and equipment. At one point, he started packing guns for which he didn’t even have ammo.


‘I’ll get hold of some on the way,’ Roland blustered.


Ralph had played along, making encouraging noises. But losing the comfort of trusting in his dad’s infallibility hurt like hell. He felt a bit like Tanky must have, being forced aboard in his crate, roaring in fear and frustration, with no choice but to comply.


Now, the dark water made Ralph shiver as they progressed cautiously downriver. A red lamp glowed on deck; red so it didn’t stop their eyes adjusting to the dark. The motor was running at low speed so that its low electric purr was difficult to hear over the steady chirrup of cicadas and night birds. Roland stood at the tiller, gazing silently into the night. He gave no sign that he’d heard Ralph approach, just stared down at something in his hand.


‘Dad, where’s Robyn?’ Ralph asked softly. ‘And Niko?’


‘Seeing to the rhino,’ Roland replied distantly.


Ralph realised what his dad was holding. It was a cigar cutter with an inbuilt lighter. Xai had bought it for him on the first anniversary of Roland making the Recces, and Ralph knew it was a treasured gift.


Roland looked so sad. 
Get your father out of this for me
, 
my little rogue
, Xai had said.


If only I knew how
, Ralph thought.


‘We had a tradition, Xai and I,’ Roland said. ‘After a successful mission, we’d share a drink and a cigar together.’ He weighed the lighter. ‘We had to use this, for luck. And the drink could only be a beer. Not a whisky or rum or a vintage cognac. It had to be –’


‘A beer.’ Ralph smiled to see his dad brightening. ‘Any in particular?’


‘Oh, that depended on the cigar.’ Roland chuckled. ‘See, Xai would say, the trick of it is to match the colour of the cigar wrapper to the colour of the beer. A mild cigar pairs with a light beer, but if you’re going for a full‑bodied Cuban, then . . .’ He trailed off. ‘I’m sorry, Ralph. Not a story you can really relate to.’


‘I’m sure they pair well with a good Fanta,’ Ralph joked. ‘That lighter brought you a lot of luck over the years. I’m glad you brought it with you.’


Roland nodded vaguely. ‘No luck lasts forever.’


‘I tried to fight alongside him . . . but he wouldn’t let me.’ Ralph paused, uneasy. ‘When Zuma fired at Xai, he was already firing at her and her troops. He took down two of them as well as the helicopter pilot.’


‘Xai was protecting you.’


‘I know. And . . . I guess that she was trying to protect her people. The first thing she did was shield her wounded.’


‘Or else she was out for revenge.’ Roland looked past the blood‑red glow of the lantern into the inky darkness. ‘Revenge for the lives we took fighting our way out of the mine.’


‘It was kill or be killed,’ Ralph said quietly. ‘You didn’t start this battle – none of you did.’


‘But I’m going to see it through. Whatever it takes.’ Roland increased the engine speed, staring out over the dark river. ‘I’ve heard that in the field, Zuma’s a real legend. Tactical acumen second to none, with the ability to read the terrain and anticipate the enemy’s moves. She’s the perfect soldier. But if she’s killing civilians on the orders of a corrupt president, then she’s crooked too. She may think that she’s above justice. But like Mbato and Gerhard, she’ll get what’s coming to her.’ He slid Xai’s lighter into the pocket of his tactical vest and buttoned it closed. ‘One way or another, we’ve entered the end game. And whatever it takes, we’re going to win.’


‘What it takes is some sleep,’ Ralph said, hoping to shift the subject someplace lighter. ‘I can help? Take over the tiller?’


‘I’m fine. Why don’t you get some sleep?’ Roland told him. ‘While you can.’


‘Sure. I’ll try.’ Ralph retreated, heavy‑hearted, to the cabin at the back of the boat, which had a small bunk area. He heard a throaty roar from the crate on the deck.


‘Robyn, you’ve 
got
 to hold the light steady,’ Niko snapped.


Rob was already speaking over her: ‘Don’t shout – you’ll upset him even more!’


Rhino care going well
, Ralph thought. But he was glad to hear their noise over the sounds of the river; it helped him feel connected to them. His dad, silent and sad, felt lost out there in the darkness, a million miles away.


But as Ralph settled into his bunk, he knew his sorrow wasn’t just for Xai and his dad. It was for himself too. The boy who’d grown up at Crocodile Lodge, safe and secure with no thought of the future; that boy had been tested and changed for ever. Ralph knew that when he left this boat, he’d be walking through a doorway into the next stage of his life. He would go on learning from his father, and love him, but his faith would never again be unquestioning. The thought made him feel guilty, but he knew it was something that came with age and experience. Like the young lion skirmishing with its father then leaving the pride to face the unknown alone. Every boy went there, sooner or later.


Another step nearer to claiming my birthright
, thought Ralph, as his heavy eyes shut. 
To becoming an adventurist
.


 


Justice Mahomed Street would normally have been busy with traffic, but there wasn’t a car or bus in sight as Grant looked out from a side alley. He, Luke and Karl van Rok had lain low in a garage for an hour or more, waiting until closer to curfew, in the hope it would be easier to reach their destination unspotted.


‘Shall we give it a go?’ Grant asked his companions.


‘Got to be a better bet than this dude’s old garage,’ said Luke.


‘Can you remember the way, Grant?’ Mr van Rok asked. ‘I’ve a map on my phone –’


‘No need,’ Grant told him. ‘I’ve been working out the quickest route in my head.’ He took a deep breath, put on his mask, and led the way out of the alley, the van Roks just behind him, at a pace he hoped looked comfortable and not suspicious. They jogged across the road and a stretch of parkland to get into the residential area beyond.


The smaller streets were lush with greenery, tree‑lined and serene, but silent. They walked swiftly between high fences and the trees that flanked the road. Grant watched anxiously for movement, for someone calling out suspiciously, ‘What are you doing?’, but they didn’t see a soul.


The two‑storey safe house was made of textured stone that had been painted pink – not a garish pink but a light beige‑pink that had delighted Grant as a child: it was the exact shade of the pink‑backed pelican, and had a reddish terracotta tile roof. Grant took a deep breath. The house looked grand, yet comfortable and welcoming at the same time, just as he remembered.


‘Ready?’ he asked the other two, then he walked confidently up the paved driveway. His stomach muscles tensed as the front door, sheltered by a small veranda, opened and a man dressed in black stepped out.


Security guard
, Grant thought.


The man nodded to them. ‘Master Khumalo?’ He looked at the van Roks but didn’t ask who they were. ‘You’re expected.’


A short hallway with terracotta floor tiles led to an elegant wooden staircase. Grant glanced at a living room off to one side that was panelled in the same dark reddish timber as the staircase. Stone fireplace, plush sofas, patterned rug on a wooden parquetry floor – everything looked as luxurious as he’d imagined, but somehow lonely as well.


‘Where’s my father?’ Grant asked.


‘Upstairs,’ said the guard. ‘Waiting for you.’


The guard gestured them towards the stairs and followed them silently. Weeks of being on the run made Grant’s back prickle at having someone unknown behind him, and he found himself striding faster up the stairs, anticipating the relief of seeing his dad again. Anticipating safety after so long without it.


Another security guard at the top of the stairs nodded at a door opposite, and Grant almost leaped to open it. He stepped into the room and saw his dad sitting behind an elegant wooden desk. There was a woman beside him, wearing olive drabs and the purple beret of a Special Forces Brigade unit.


She was pointing a pistol at Max Khumalo’s head.


Luke swore and turned to run, but his way was blocked by the two security guards. Both of them had drawn weapons and were covering Grant and the van Roks.


‘It’s good of you to join us,’ said the woman. ‘I’m Captain Zuma. Perhaps you’d like to tell me where I can find your friends?’


OceanofPDF.com













20


Zuma
, thought Grant, as his guts turned to jelly. 
Xai’s murderer
.


‘I’m sorry, Grant,’ said his father. ‘They got to me. Knocked out my guards and took their place. They knew you were coming.’


‘How, for heaven’s sake?’ Grant demanded. He knew he sounded petulant, but didn’t care. ‘We used code.’


‘And we used intelligence resources, as we always do with terrorists,’ Zuma replied, tapping at a laptop on Max’s desk with her free hand. ‘We had a list of likely safe houses, properties owned or leased by the Green Freedom Party. So when your dad went to ground, we kept tabs on them. This place had been empty for ages, then suddenly it wasn’t.’ She shrugged as a soft ring tone came from the laptop. ‘We started routine observation. Tracked a helicopter that landed not too far away. Didn’t take long to confirm our suspicions.’


‘Big Brother is watching you!’ Grant’s dad looked shaken to his core. ‘We are not terrorists! I knew your master was a petty‑minded criminal, but to go to these lengths –’


‘My master is the president, and the rule of law,’ Zuma said, her face and voice hardening.


‘Yes, have some respect, can’t you?’ came a hateful voice from the laptop, as an imposing figure appeared, sitting in a leather wingback chair behind a desk as big as a limousine.


‘Mbato,’ said Mr van Rok quietly.


‘Ah, Karl, good to see you and your son back together,’ the president said. ‘I do hope you’ll behave appropriately. If either of you doesn’t, Captain Zuma will ensure that the other regrets it.’ He peered out at Grant. ‘And here is Khumalo Junior. What a stubborn stain you are to remove.’


Grant wanted to fight back, give some cocky retort. But he was so shaken he couldn’t think of anything to say.


‘It was actually Dane Mellanby who told us about your party’s property portfolio,’ Mbato went on coldly. ‘Such a shame he ran out on you all.’


‘Ran out? You had him killed,’ Grant sneered.


‘Ah, you would say that, wouldn’t you?’ Mbato winked. ‘Brainwashed by terrorists. Swallowed all the Ballantyne propaganda . . .’


‘Propaganda?’ Grant wanted to smash the screen. He looked beseechingly at Zuma. ‘He’s lying, and we can prove it!’


‘Can you indeed?’ said Mbato thoughtfully. ‘Well, I think we’d all like to study this doubtless very convincing evidence. Concocted while you’ve been lying low, perhaps.’ He paused. ‘Where are the Ballantynes and Niko Haart now, Grant? We know they’ve left Crocodile Lodge.’


‘Because that little chip in the woolly rhino tells you they’re out of wifi range?’ said Luke.


‘For now,’ said Mbato. ‘Where are they trying to get to? The sooner you tell us, the sooner you all go free.’


‘You’re threatening a political rival in front of witnesses,’ Max Khumalo hissed. ‘For pity’s sake, Julius, I can pretend this didn’t happen if you stop now. You can’t seriously plan to have me shot!’


‘Well, Max, I just don’t know what you’re capable of,’ Mbato said softly. ‘You’ve been supporting the terrorists who released this virus –’


‘It’s a lie!’ Max snapped. ‘And others know it is.’


‘The world demands justice,’ Mbato said, ‘and I’m going to get it. Grant, tell me now, boy – where are Roland Ballantyne and the others?’


‘I don’t know,’ Grant said. ‘I swear, I don’t!’


‘We left to get help without them,’ said Mr van Rok. ‘They said it was safer if we didn’t know where they were going.’


Zuma was watching them closely. ‘Then obviously, they’re going to contact you as soon as they’re able.’


Luke’s shoulders slumped.


‘I’m right, aren’t I?’ said Zuma. She turned to a sergeant. ‘All right, I want all phones in this building on the desk, now.’


‘Very good, Zuma,’ said Mbato. ‘We’ll just wait for the phone to ring, shall we? You can pretend that everything’s normal. That the safe house remains safe. Let Roland tell us his plans and whereabouts, and then . . .’


Grant watched as the sergeant began to pat Luke down with professional thoroughness. He knew that next, the sergeant would search him, and no way would his phone not be discovered. Grant pulled it from his pocket and ran to the open window, hoping to throw it as far as he could. But a guard tripped him, and Grant fell to the parquet floor with a thump.


‘Captain Zuma,’ said Mbato, ‘inform me when the call comes in, will you? I have business to attend to here at Mahlamba Ndlopfu . . . with Mr Gerhard.’


‘Understood, Mr President,’ said Zuma. Her eyes were as dark as the laptop screen as Mbato killed the call.


 


Ralph woke with gritty eyes and no idea where he was. It was still dark, but the song outside was one of approaching dawn.


‘Rise and shine. We’re nearly at the exit point,’ Robyn told him quietly. She was on her feet, struggling into an old hoodie. She yawned. ‘Dad’s given us vests to wear.’


For a moment Ralph was baffled. 
Vests?
 Then he saw his sister strap herself into an intricate tapestry of nylon and mesh and realised she meant a 
tactical
 vest. 
Of course Dad has
, he thought. MOLLE webbing covered its surface, allowing various military accessories to be attached.


‘It weighs a ton,’ Robyn complained, tossing Ralph’s vest onto his bunk.


‘Plates of boron carbide ceramic sewn in,’ he informed her. ‘Dad is ready for his war. Guess we’ve got to be ready to fight alongside him.’


‘Obvs,’ said Robyn. ‘Who prepares, wins. Isn’t that the old motto?’ She climbed up the ladder to the cabin, and he heard her footsteps overhead. Ralph quickly struggled into the vest and followed. While Niko minded the tiller, Roland Ballantyne was telling Robyn what to store where in her webbing.


‘Here’s your IFAK.’ He passed her a black pouch. ‘Immediate First Aid Kit. It secures to your vest at the right hip. Get in here, Ralph, and see for yourself.’


Ralph looked over his dad’s shoulder as Roland opened the pouch and showed them its contents: ‘Bandages and dressings, clotting agents, surgical gloves . . . this syringe contains diazepam in case of seizures or muscle spasms . . .’


‘Jeez, Dad,’ said Robyn. ‘We’re not entering an actual war zone, are we?’


‘Just a precaution,’ said Roland, pointing to a similar pouch on his own vest. ‘If we’re able to, we can treat our own wounds.’


‘You really think things could escalate that way?’ said Niko.


‘You and Robyn saw how they escalated at Gauda,’ Roland reminded her. ‘And just ask Ralph how quickly events got out of hand at Gerhard’s complex. If you’d had medical kits then . . .’ Roland looked at Ralph. ‘Who knows how things might have gone?’


Ralph met his stare. ‘But I didn’t, did I? I’m not a soldier. You’re just making me cosplay as one.’


Roland seemed about to answer when the cruiser bumped softly against the riverbank.


‘We’re getting close to Malelane,’ Niko said. ‘When we get there, we can leave Tanky on the boat and figure out how we move him next.’


‘A trailer will be too conspicuous,’ said Robyn. ‘We’ll need to find an alternative.’


Roland half‑smiled. ‘I think I know one.’


 


Grant slumped in a chair as dawn spread grey wings across the sky. He’d fallen into a fitful sleep but now he was pretending to sleep, hoping to find an opportunity to escape. His father had fallen asleep at his desk, while Zuma sat in a corner, on the floor. One of the guards, as far as he could tell, had taken up position at the bottom of the stairs, blocking any chance of getting up or down them, while the other guard stood watchful in the doorway, Luke and his father lying on the floor beside him.


‘Real convincing acting there, son.’ Zuma smothered a yawn and climbed stiffly to her feet. ‘I don’t recommend you even think of trying something. I am not in the mood to play.’


Grant opened his eyes and looked at Zuma. Her face could have been carved from granite, and her resolve seemed a close match.


‘Why are you taking Mbato’s orders?’ he said softly. ‘You must know it’s wrong.’


‘Refuse orders from my Commander‑in‑Chief?’ said Zuma, pretending to think about it. ‘Maybe not.’


‘Do you know how many mercenaries he sent after us, cos he couldn’t involve the real military?’ Grant said. ‘D’you have any idea how far he’ll go to hold on to power?’


Zuma’s dark, brooding eyes drilled into his own. ‘I know how far extremists like you go with your idea of truth. But I’ve seen the proof.’


‘I’ve 
lived
 it,’ Grant retorted. ‘You call me extreme? You must know how involved the president is with Josef Gerhard. The man’s crazed for power. He’s a megalomaniac.’


‘Fancy words from a fancy education,’ said Zuma. ‘I’m a soldier. It’s straightforward enough for me: I follow my chain of command.’


‘But your chain of command must also obey the law!’ Grant persisted. Karl stirred in his sleep, opening his eyes. ‘Ask Mr van Rok. Mbato wants to push through a deal that means all electronic companies in the country have to use Gerhard computer chips, and they’ll be loaded with spyware . . .’


‘Do you hear how crazy you sound?’ Zuma looked unimpressed. ‘Look, kid. It’s your friends I want to talk to, not you. I think you let yourself get mixed up in this just to hack off your old man.’


Grant looked away. ‘You have no idea what’s been going on.’


‘I’d be very interested for Roland Ballantyne to tell me,’ said Zuma. ‘When he eventually calls.’


‘You haven’t picked up the signal from the chip then,’ he said.


She looked on impassively, giving nothing away.


‘The chip inside the woolly rhino we smuggled out of Gerhard’s land,’ Grant went on. ‘One of the predasaurs he created – like the scorpions left at Crocodile Lodge to murder anyone who went there. Creatures controlled by a chip. The president got rid of opponents like Dane Mellanby by sending them off to Gerhard’s reserve so the predasaurs could hunt them down!’


‘I liked you better when you were pretending to be asleep,’ Zuma said. ‘Please, God, let your friends make contact soon so I don’t have to endure any more of this bull.’ She gave a sarcastic smile. ‘And, so you know, I mean 
regular
 bull. Bull that’s not controlled by a chip.’


Grant closed his eyes, exhausted. But he knew no more sleep would come.


OceanofPDF.com













21


As the flatboat approached the little town of Malelane, Ralph noticed the wild banks of the Crocodile River grow a little more tamed. Soon the water was bordered with sandy banks of grasses and low shrubs. Beyond lay a lush landscape of rolling fields of sugar cane, game farms and tropical fruits, not to mention residential gardens: people moved here to swap city life for the seclusion of the country, and several large properties backed onto the river, boasting wide, shaded balconies to take advantage of the view. There were no humans in sight, though; the lockdown would be keeping tourists away, just as Dad had said, and hopefully the locals wouldn’t be getting up just yet.


Robyn had control of the boat, while Roland and Niko read through Grant’s hastily typed transcript of the conversation between Mbato and Gerhard, overheard by both Ralph and the security cameras.


‘Ha, listen! This is Gerhard speaking.’ Roland read: ‘
We have ways to keep Ballantyne and his girlfriend silent: we have the children.
’ He shook his head. ‘You couldn’t ask for better evidence against them.’


‘Almost too good,’ Ralph said. ‘People will think we faked it.’


‘Unlike Gerhard’s “fake news” job on us, our footage will stand up to scrutiny,’ said Niko.


‘As long as we can get it to the right people,’ said Robyn.


‘Let’s hope Max Khumalo’s got their email addresses,’ Ralph agreed drily. ‘Cos getting anyone to listen to our explanation is gonna be one hell of a challenge.’


A crocodile swam out of their way as Robyn guided the flatboat towards a small jetty running alongside the bank.


‘No, not here,’ Roland said. ‘If I remember right, there’s a motorhome dealership further on. Always used to have the show homes set up and good to go.’


Robyn swapped a puzzled glance with Ralph. ‘We’re stealing a motorhome?’


‘Finally, a little more space and comfort as we run for our lives,’ said Niko.


Ralph raised his eyebrows. ‘Uh‑huh. And I’m sure Tanky can squeeze up those steps and tiptoe in and out of those little doors, no problem at all!’


His father tutted good‑humouredly, and something tense and unhappy inside Ralph eased a little bit at how natural the moment seemed.


‘Ralph, you’re clearly not up to speed on the modern motorhome,’ he said. ‘Just you wait.’


They reached the dealership, which had about a dozen motorhomes of various sizes parked between rows of acacia trees some distance from a home‑cum‑sales centre and was fenced off from the river. But the fence was old and rotten, with damp at the base in sections, and it was easy enough to break through. Ralph crawled inside and then unbolted a gate in the fence.


Roland turned to Niko and Robyn expectantly. ‘Team Rhino, how quickly can you have him ready to go?’


‘Ready to go where?’ Robyn sighed. ‘He’s been through so much already.’


‘A short distance on foot,’ Roland said.


‘Fifteen minutes?’ Niko suggested.


‘Make it five,’ Roland told her.


‘I hope this works out,’ Robyn muttered, turning to go. ‘Whatever 
this
 is . . .’


Ralph went with his father to inspect the motorhomes. Several had awnings still attached, shading displays of garden furniture that had never been used. Ralph peered through the windows of one motorhome and raised an eyebrow at the plush interior: upholstered couch and swivel armchairs, a glimpse of a sleek galley kitchen, and a neatly made bed at the other end of the motorhome.


‘I am not sleeping next to Tanky,’ he joked quietly. ‘Next.’


‘This looks more promising,’ said Roland, checking over a Weinsberg MEG Outlaw in silver‑grey. It had loading doors the full width of the back of the vehicle. ‘Locked.’


‘Hold that thought,’ Ralph muttered, crossing around to try the driver’s door. It was unlocked and he found the keys tucked into the sun visor, ready for a prospective customer to take for a spin.


‘Guess they weren’t expecting us to come along,’ said Ralph, feeling guilty as he passed his dad the keys.


‘You can consider this a test drive,’ Roland said. ‘When we come through this, we’ll buy the thing.’


When
, Ralph noted, with a small prayer.


Roland turned the key and opened the doors onto a storage space with a folding ramp; clearly it was designed to hold a motorcycle or even a quad bike – but the metal floor and airline tie‑down rails made it perfect for a juvenile woolly rhino. Beyond the pristine space was a narrow access door to the interior. Ralph clambered lightly inside and went through it into a kitchen/dinette area with a bathroom on the left. The bedroom was accessed by ladder, nothing more than a mattress in a narrow compartment the width of the van, built over the storage space.


‘This ought to do us,’ Roland declared. ‘If the rhino’s drugged, we should be able to hold him here discreetly for a while before we find somewhere more appropriate.’


‘When do we call Grant’s dad?’ Ralph asked.


‘Let’s get the front entrance open first so we don’t damage our new investment on the way out,’ said Roland. ‘Then see if we can find a tickey box.’


‘A public phone, you mean?’ said Ralph. ‘Didn’t they all die out, like the dinosaurs?’


‘In less urban areas you can usually find them.’ Roland half‑smiled. ‘Especially places like this, where money can be made from tourists losing their mobile phones on overpriced safaris.’ He moved stealthily towards the motorhome park’s front gates. ‘Let’s do this.’


 


Grant started as the satellite phone on the desk began to buzz and chime.


The guard standing in the doorway jerked to attention, training his gun on the phone – and Grant’s chest.


Clearly horrified, Max Khumalo stood up from his chair. ‘No, don’t!’


Zuma was up on her feet in a heartbeat. She nodded to the guard to stand down. ‘Don’t answer it yet,’ she warned Grant, pressing a button on her mobile phone. ‘The president wants to listen in.’


Grant felt sweaty inside and out. They’d each been briefed on how the call had to go, but Max Khumalo was to be the star of the show. ‘
Win their trust
,’ Zuma had told them. 
‘Get them to this address. No tricks, or . . .’


The phone buzzed on for what felt like forever.


Luke was awake by now, sitting close to his father. ‘They’re gonna hang up,’ he said.


‘Best they do,’ Mr van Rok muttered. But on the laptop, a camera icon glowed into light and then Mbato’s face appeared. Grant saw Gerhard hovering behind him.


Zuma raised the handgun to Max’s head and signalled with a nod to Grant that he should pick up the phone.


Grant did so and hit Call Accept, then put the phone on speaker. His heart was so far in his mouth it was a miracle he could speak at all. There was a beeping noise; the call was being made from a pay phone. ‘Uh, hello?’


‘Grant, it’s Rob.’ Robyn’s voice came over loud and clear in the hushed room. ‘Took your time, didn’t you? All OK?’


Zuma fixed him with a look as hard and cold as the gun barrels all around him.


‘Yeah,’ he agreed. ‘Just trying to sleep, you know?’


‘You made it to the safe house?’


‘We’re at the house, yeah,’ said Grant, eyeing the pistol held to his father’s forehead. He wasn’t about to call it ‘safe’ – but would Robyn pick up on that? Mbato apparently had; he mimed drawing a blade across his throat.


‘Is everyone all right?’ Robyn said.


‘We’re fine.’ Grant tried to keep the tremor from his voice. ‘You?’


‘You won’t believe the night I had,’ Robyn began. ‘Am I on speaker?’


Grant felt a trickle of sweat behind his ear. ‘Yep.’


‘Well, Dad says I have to keep this short, stick to the point, so – your dad?’


‘He’s here.’ Grant held out the phone. ‘Say hello, Dad.’


‘Robyn Ballantyne, is it?’ Max leaned forward in his seat, and Zuma’s gun followed him. ‘Well, I’m not exactly cock‑a‑hoop to hear from you. But I’ll help you if I can, for Grant’s sake.’


‘Thank you, obvs.’ She cleared her throat. ‘We need somewhere safe to regroup, plan our next steps.’


‘I understand you have a beast of some sort with you,’ said Max. ‘Part of your evidence against Mbato?’


‘Well, against Gerhard. Gerhard had the rhino chipped – it’s his tech, not ours.’


‘You can’t bring that thing here!’ Max shot a sideways look at the screen. ‘Chipped, you say? Like a pet? Surely that means Gerhard can track the thing?’


‘Hey, did you give the rhino a name yet?’ Grant said. As the words came out, they sounded horribly unnatural in his ears; he needed to signal to Rob that things weren’t right here, but if she asked him what the hell he was talking about, or Mbato guessed he was trying to warn her, they could all end up dead.


The silence seemed to stretch on forever. Grant glanced at Luke and Mr van Rok, but their faces were carefully neutral.


‘No, I haven’t named him yet,’ Robyn said. ‘I 
was
 gonna call him Mbato . . .’


‘Ha! Good shout,’ Grant said with forced cheer, hoping they were working to the same code; that something was wrong and Mbato was at the root of it.


‘Your father and I had to handle a rhino on live television, at the opening of a safari park in Addo. Jacaranda was its name,’ Max put in. But Zuma was glaring at him; she pushed the gun against his temple. ‘Uh, in any case, I have an address of a place you should make for,’ he went on hurriedly, looking down at a piece of paper. ‘It’s a depot where we store the staging for our rallies. Of course, the rallies can’t happen thanks to the lockdown, so no one’s there. At the back of the building is a loading bay where you can unload your . . . evidence.’ He paused and read out the address, line by line. ‘You’ll be safe there.’


‘Safe as houses,’ Grant said, hoping Robyn might get the ‘house not a safe house’ subtext, but knowing it was a long shot. ‘It’ll be good to see you.’ He felt suddenly self‑conscious. ‘Um, won’t it, Luke?’


Zuma looked at Luke and jabbed the gun at him and his dad. ‘Yeah,’ Luke said quickly, with feigned enthusiasm. ‘Totally.’


‘How long will it take you to get there?’ Max Khumalo asked.


‘If all goes OK, just a few hours.’ Robyn paused. ‘OK, ringing off. Stay safe. Bye.’


There was a click and the line went quiet.


Zuma turned to the laptop screen. ‘Did you get a fix, sir?’


Mbato shook his head. ‘I’m told there was not enough time to triangulate the signal.’ He raised his voice. ‘What the hell was that guff about a rhino in Addo, Khumalo?’


That was all Mbato picked up on
? Grant thought with a mix of relief and concern for his dad. 
Then the rest of it got through?


Mbato continued: ‘If you were trying to feed misinformation –’


‘It was simply something to tell her father, so he’ll believe it was me,’ Grant’s dad shot back. ‘The Daktari safari lodge was a party sponsor. I opened it ten – no, eleven – years ago. You’re at liberty to look it up.’


‘Oh, we’re at liberty to do anything we want,’ Mbato said coldly. ‘Particularly now you’ve served your purpose.’


‘If they can be at that address in just a few hours,’ said Gerhard, ‘they must still be somewhere outside Pretoria.’


‘Agreed,’ said Mbato. ‘Zuma, to pick up the signal from the chip in that beast you’ll need –’


‘Mr Gerhard’s software patch is already loaded onto the comms grid,’ Zuma said briskly. ‘I’ve got units checking for the faintest signal from that chip. We’ll know where the fugitives are, and when to expect them.’


Grant closed his eyes. There was no sign that Zuma had listened to anything he’d said about Gerhard’s control over the predasaurs. If only she had believed him . . .


‘All right.’ Mbato looked into the laptop’s camera. ‘Just remember, Zuma – today, we end this. Take your prisoners to the depot. Have your men surround the location in plenty of time.’


Zuma saluted. ‘Yes, sir.’


‘You can’t seriously expect me to go through with this?’ said Max Khumalo. ‘After what you’ve done, Mbato –’


‘You think you have leverage over me?’ Mbato shook his head. ‘You won’t say a word, Max. If you do, the press will destroy you. After all, your son came here to kill you, didn’t you know that? I saved you. You’ve been affected by grief, taking pills to help you sleep, but they make you confused, paranoid, seeing plots all around you that just aren’t there. Need I go on?’


Khumalo sank back in his chair. ‘Go to hell, Mbato.’


‘You’ll be going to the depot, Khumalo.’ Mbato’s deep, resonant voice was mocking. ‘I want all loose ends neatly tied up.’


The laptop went dead as Mbato killed the signal.


‘You heard,’ said Zuma stiffly. ‘Everyone up. We’re shipping out.’


OceanofPDF.com













22


Grant felt apprehension balling inside him as a glossy black people carrier with tinted windows pulled up outside the safe house. The two guards shepherded Grant, Luke and their fathers into the rear of the vehicle. Zuma climbed into the front seat and the driver pulled away. There was little traffic on the road to greet the sun as it pushed up its head, spilling blazing gold across the sky.


I want all loose ends neatly tied up
, Mbato had said.


This could be the last sunrise I ever see
, Grant thought with a weird sense of detachment. 
After all the running and hiding and fighting, I’m a prisoner again
.


‘Are you all right, Grant?’ his dad asked quietly from the seat behind him.


Grant looked at him. ‘I’m sorry, Dad. That I got you into this.’


‘No. This isn’t on you, son,’ he said. ‘Mbato would have dealt with me one way or another, I see that now. It should’ve been me killed by scorpions, not poor Lindi.’


The people carrier moved through the city. There were occasional roadblocks: law enforcement officers quizzed drivers on their destinations, checking for compliance with lockdown regulations. If anyone showed symptoms of the virus, then officials from the Department of Health were on hand to perform on‑the‑spot tests. Grant had the forlorn hope that their vehicle would be stopped and he could get help. But police officers waved them through.


Grant couldn’t tell how long they’d travelled when they reached an urban, rundown commercial district where the traffic thinned to practically nothing.


‘We’ve arrived,’ Zuma announced.


The people carrier parked next to a loading bay at the back of the depot. It was deserted: there was no one to see the four frightened prisoners offloaded into the shadows of the loading bay. There were soldiers inside, in full combat gear, their camouflage incongruous against the stained concrete and bare brickwork.


If Robyn and the others come here
, Grant thought, 
they’re never getting out again
.


While Zuma stayed in the loading bay, briefing her troops, Grant and the others were shepherded away to the main warehouse area. Low‑watt bulbs lit a space filled with stage blocks and scaffolding, lights and bunting. There were huge placards daubed with Green Freedom Party slogans: End corruption! Save the animals, save the world! Sections of billboard showing parts of his father’s face were stacked against a wall in a surreal jigsaw. A soldier was placing chairs in a circle, a small bottle of water on each.


Grant’s eyes were drawn to a suited man in the corner, half‑hidden behind a makeshift workstation, his large, sleek computer and monitor perched on a trestle table. He didn’t need to see the man’s face to know exactly who he was.


‘Gerhard! You show your face here?’ Mr van Rok had recognised him too, and started angrily towards him, as if forgetting he was a prisoner. He didn’t forget for long, as a soldier shoved him backwards so hard he fell to the bare ground. Luke crouched beside him to help him up. ‘You sick son of a . . . After all you’ve done –’


‘Do be quiet, Karl.’ Gerhard sounded mildly peeved, but didn’t take his eyes from the screen. ‘Finally, I’m –’


Van Rok brushed the dirt off his hands. ‘You’ll never get away with this.’


‘Away with what?’ Gerhard smiled faintly. ‘You don’t know what you’re part of, do you? So concerned about your lame‑brained son that you’d do anything I ask. Sit down and keep still, would you? I need you, it’s true – but not necessarily in one piece.’


The chilling threat hung in the air, until Max Khumalo grabbed it. ‘I thought this operation was a military one. What’s your interest?’


Gerhard looked up at last. ‘My interest is in keeping you out of office. Your old‑school scruples make you depressingly difficult to bribe.’ He looked over at Grant and tutted sadly. ‘And you simply don’t love your son enough to be effectively blackmailed. Sorry, Grant – them’s the breaks.’


Grant looked at him with pure loathing. ‘Roland should’ve killed you when he had the chance.’


‘And not expose me to the world? Not clear the names of his partner and children? I think not. I just had to wait for my opportunity. And lo, it came to pass.’ Gerhard looked back at the screen. ‘You’ll be able to berate Ballantyne for his errors in person soon. Based on their current course and speed, in around three hours.’


‘What?’ Luke sounded unsure. ‘How would you know that?’


‘The Ballantynes still have my property in their possession,’ said Gerhard. ‘The data chip inside the woolly rhino is now within send/receive range. Its signal is unmistakable. They’re coming here.’


‘We’ll see,’ said Grant.


‘We’ll see,’ Gerhard agreed with a wink. ‘And then Zuma and her associates will act.’


 


The hours crawled by. Grant sat on the chair and drank his water. He asked to use the bathroom, so he could scope out any hope of escape. But there was no chance. The windows were narrow and high up, out of reach.


Gerhard picked up a handheld radio. ‘They’re nearing the junction with the N1, Captain,’ he reported. ‘I’m sharing the data with you, so it should show on your . . . Excellent.’ He paused, as low chatter came in response, and looked over at Grant. ‘Yes, he’s the one they spent most time with, and the girl. Yes.’


Grant felt his cheeks prickle. What was being said?


‘They’re going to use you to stand lookout for the Ballantynes,’ his father said quietly from beside him.


Grant stared at him. ‘Huh?’


‘It’s obvious, isn’t it? You’ll wave them in – “Yes, it’s all safe, you’re good, come into the loading bay, I’ll close the doors after” – and that’s when the soldiers will close in.’


‘I can’t do that,’ Grant whispered.


His dad leaned forward. ‘You must. While there’s life, there’s hope.’


‘And what if they open fire on the Ballantynes? Kill them in cold blood?’


‘Don’t play the hero, son,’ Max said. ‘Please. I don’t want to lose you too.’


Now you act like the caring father
, Grant wanted to retort. But he kept quiet, because a part of him was thinking 
That might be the last thing you ever tell him
. Then Gerhard stopped talking on the radio and nodded to one of the soldiers. He motioned for Grant to get up and move over to the loading bay door.


Grant stood there on shaking legs, looking back at Luke and Mr van Rok.


Luke had the saddest look on his scarred face. ‘Be lucky.’


Mr van Rok, like Max, looked down at the ground.


Then the soldier marched Grant outside. Nausea rose inside him as he saw at least twenty soldiers hiding behind crates piled up in the bay’s far corners, shielded from sight from the entrance. Some of them held Tasers, others dart guns, others automatic weapons. 
They’ve covered all bases
, Grant thought grimly.


Zuma stood beside the bay doors, looking at a tablet. She beckoned him towards her. ‘A few minutes from now, you’re gonna wait out there for them to arrive,’ she began.


‘And bring them in so you can jump them,’ Grant said. ‘I can’t do it. I can’t betray them after all we’ve been through.’


‘It’s over, Grant,’ Zuma said, a little more softly. ‘Do this and you’ll be OK. But if you try to run or try to warn them –’


‘I’m collateral damage,’ Grant interrupted. ‘Like you won’t do that anyway. Mbato’s going to kill me 
and
 my dad, whatever happens.’


‘Once the terrorists are apprehended, you’ll be released.’


She sounds sincere
, Grant thought. He wanted to believe her. But how could he?


What was he going to do?


The sticky minutes crowded in on him, tension building to breaking point. A squawk from Zuma’s radio broke into his thoughts. She brought the handset to her ear. ‘Copy,’ she said, and signalled to her troops to get out of sight. ‘Targets incoming. I repeat, lethal force is not to be used on the terrorists unless they fire on us.’


‘Because Mbato wants to gloat and then kill them himself? He’s done it before!’ Grant stared at her, imploring. ‘You said you served the rule of law. Well, you heard Mbato in that office – he thinks he’s above the law. He thinks you’re no better than he is.’


Zuma shot him a sharp glance, then resumed her final briefing. ‘The beast accompanying them is dangerous and must be shot dead. Clean and quick. Ballantyne and the rest are enemies of the state and evidence suggests they will not come quietly. Whatever happens there’ll be at least a dozen inquiries into our actions today, so I need everyone to fly right.’


‘There’ll be no inquiries!’ Grant said bitterly. ‘For heaven’s sake, Ralph is just fifteen!’


Zuma placed a heavy hand on his shoulder. ‘Be quiet. Do what you’re told.’


‘Or what?’ Grant hissed. ‘You think there’s anything left you can do to me? Seriously?’


Zuma met his gaze for a moment, then checked her tablet. ‘Any minute now.’ She stalked away from the entrance, her back to the wall, standing beside the door controls. ‘Stand forward so you’re clearly visible as they approach. And remember, you’ll be in my sights the whole time. I don’t want to hurt you, but . . .’


With the threat hanging in the air, Grant walked out into the strong sunlight. There was no sound apart from his heartbeat, drumming in his ears. He licked his dry lips. Caught the whine of an approaching engine. Closed his eyes.


Surely the engine note was too high? It wasn’t a truck, or even a jeep, it was –


A motorbike swung into view around the corner. The man riding it was encased in black leather, wearing a helmet the same red as the lockbox mounted on the back of the bike.


A courier?
 Grant stared dumbly as the bike approached, decelerating.


The man stopped beside him and took off his helmet. He was a young guy with ginger hair and a straggly beard. A stranger.


‘Are you Captain Zuma?’ the man asked him brightly, reaching back to open the lockbox. ‘Package for you. Needs signing for.’


‘What the hell is this?’ boomed Zuma, striding outside, pointing her Vektor Z88 at the courier’s head. ‘Off the bike. Now!’


The courier looked convincingly panic‑stricken and held up his hands as he got off the bike, which fell over. The contents of the lockbox, a brown manila envelope, flopped onto the tarmac.


‘Down on the ground!’ Zuma shouted. ‘Spread your arms and legs!’


While he did so, Grant scooped up the envelope. Soldiers rushed forward, Tasers pointed his way and at the hapless courier. Zuma plucked the envelope from Grant’s hands, checked it quickly, then opened it.


She reached in carefully and removed a wad of papers. Attached to one corner with surgical tape was a small glass vial with something tiny and metallic inside.


And the penny dropped.


Tanky’s chip
, Grant thought with dizzying relief. 
Niko took out Tanky’s chip! Rob must have understood what I was saying in the call, that it was dangerous . . .


‘Son of a bitch,’ Zuma muttered. ‘Ballantyne played us.’


‘And won,’ Grant said.


Zuma looked up from the papers, her eyes dark and cold. ‘I think you’d better wait and see on that one.’


OceanofPDF.com













23


For Robyn, it felt like life was taking increasingly surreal turns. After so long in the wilderness, to find herself being driven through the outskirts of Pretoria in a stolen motorhome was odd enough. To be watching over an unconscious woolly rhino in the storage section in the rear, which was strapped to the metal floor like a quad bike so it couldn’t slide around, felt downright ridiculous.


Robyn remembered the tense conversation after the phone call to Grant.


‘The Khumalos were clearly trying to warn us,’ Roland had said. ‘If van Rok is right and Gerhard’s able to pick up on that chip anywhere there’s wifi, they can use the rhino to track us wherever we go. So let’s set Gerhard on a wild‑goose chase following the chip –’


‘While we take Tanky somewhere else.’ Robyn had nodded. ‘We lose the proof that Gerhard was the one who chipped him, but we still have all the other stuff . . .’


‘Let’s pray it’s enough.’ Niko had crossed her fingers. ‘And that we can extract that chip!’


Robyn stroked the coarse hair on the woolly rhino’s back. A whole patch of it was missing from his neck and a fresh wound ran along it; black stitches lined the puckered skin like thirsty flies. She would never forget what she and Niko had been through in the motorhome, removing the bullet and the data chip from Tanky using only a local anaesthetic. Robyn had soothed Tanky as best she could, trying to reach him through those pale, red eyes, while Niko cut and pulled and dabbed at his subcutaneous fat and muscle under a single dim bulb, using a flashlight in the end to help her locate the tiny chip. Ludicrous conditions yet, somehow, they’d pulled through. Now the bullet was removed, Robyn hoped that Tanky could finally start recovering properly from his ordeal.


Now Niko was driving, wearing Roland’s baseball cap, her hair tucked up inside it, while Robyn checked Tanky’s heart rate and respiration. Ralph and her father sat on the floor in the kitchen/dinette area beside the interior door. Ralph was studying the tablet while rubbing his eyes, but her dad looked exhausted, lying on his side like the woolly rhino.


‘I just hope we’ve done the right thing,’ Robyn told her dad.


‘If that chip 
is
 being tracked, Mbato and his friends will be sure we’re falling into their hands. That means they’re not looking for our actual location.’


‘Not yet, at least,’ said Robyn. ‘But why send them the transcript of the CCTV footage with the chip?’


‘Because I want Mbato and Gerhard to know we’ve got them bang to rights,’ said Roland. ‘Let them sweat. Let them realise they won’t be able to wriggle out of it this time.’


‘Gerhard and Mbato won’t give up,’ said Ralph quietly. ‘No way.’


‘Perhaps not.’ Roland pulled Xai’s cigar lighter from his pocket and stared down at it. ‘But at least our actions dictate what happens next. We do to them. Not the other way around.’


‘Hey, Ralph,’ Niko called from the driver’s seat. ‘Where are the next roadblocks?’


‘Another kilometre or so.’ Ralph peered at the tablet. ‘Take a right at the junction with Christine Street, and another just as we pass the Whidden Mall. We’re lucky there’s a couple of checkpoints down.’


‘Yeah,’ said Robyn sarcastically. ‘Lucky the people supposed to man them are probably dying with the virus.’


‘That cure has got to get into production soon,’ Niko said. ‘When I think of all the hundreds of thousands of people already affected by this virus . . . and of the millions more who’ll follow . . .’


‘I know,’ said Roland. ‘We just have to hope we can do something.’


Robyn placed her hand against Tanky’s flank. ‘I bet this motorhome has already been reported stolen. If a cop spots us now . . .’


‘Law enforcement should be at full stretch with the pandemic,’ Roland told her. ‘Try not to worry. As needs and priorities change, mission creep is inevitable.’


‘Strategic adaptations,’ Ralph murmured.


Robyn nodded. ‘Also known as making it up as you go.’


‘If Grant hadn’t done the same, you wouldn’t have worked out we were heading straight into a trap,’ said Roland. ‘Max Khumalo too – if it wasn’t for his safari park story, we’d have no chance right now. We’ve got one chance left. And we’re taking it.’


‘No choice,’ Ralph agreed.


Robyn took a calming breath and nodded. But she couldn’t help feeling uneasy. ‘Dad, are you 
really
 sure you and Grant’s dad didn’t pose with a rhino called Jacaranda in Addo? Cos if you did and you’ve forgotten –’


‘I’ve told you,’ Roland snapped, irritation snapping through his mask of calm. ‘I attended the opening of the park, I know the owner. I was introduced to Max and we exchanged pleasantries, nothing more. There were no live TV cameras at the opening, and no rhinos. Max can only have been directing us to the Jacaranda TV studios.’


Robyn had to admit it made sense. Jacaranda was Pretoria’s local access TV station. Its community output was broadcast terrestrially on local analogue frequencies but could also be watched nationally on pay‑TV platforms. ‘But Dad, it’s mostly local news and community stuff on Jacaranda, right?’


‘That’s right,’ Roland said.


‘That’s why I never watched it,’ Ralph said. ‘Boring!’


‘Since 
we’re
 local,’ said Robyn, ‘don’t you think they’ve been screening Gerhard’s faked videos of us all as virus‑hatching monster‑makers, same as every other station? They might hand us over to the authorities the second they see us.’


‘Grant’s dad might think he’s doing us a favour if Mbato 
was
 trying to set us up, but the end result will still be the same,’ said Ralph. ‘Us, locked up.’


‘I’m not so sure,’ Roland said. ‘Think about it. What TV station wouldn’t want an exclusive scoop – us stating 
our
 case? They can show our CCTV footage of Gerhard with the president, present proof that Gerhard has been genetically engineering extinct animals. It’s massive news!’


Robyn smiled sadly. She hadn’t heard her dad so fired up in a while. ‘I guess that might boost their viewing figures by a few million per cent, huh?’


‘And we don’t exactly have loads of options, in any case,’ Ralph said. ‘One way or another, it looks like this is almost over.’


 


His heart in his throat, Ralph surveyed the Jacaranda Studios building as Niko pulled the motorhome to a stop. For a local TV station located in an industrial park, it was grander than he’d expected. It was shaped like an L and stood two storeys high, with cream render and a scattering of windows at ground level. A circular concrete driveway led to double glass doors built into the crook of the L. Through them, Ralph glimpsed an airy foyer with a large, curved reception desk and several dark TV screens mounted on the walls.


‘Looks pretty dead,’ he said. ‘What if the virus has shut the place down? They’re not exactly essential workers, are they?’


‘Community television is important for keeping people informed, especially at times like this,’ Niko remarked. ‘There may be only a skeleton staff crewing the studios –’


‘But that could work to our advantage,’ Robyn argued. ‘Fewer people to convince.’


Roland nodded. ‘There are some cars parked here. And an outside broadcast van, for covering public events. Suppose there’s not a whole lot newsworthy going on just now.’


‘Until we arrived,’ said Ralph dryly.


Niko parked the motorhome just outside the building.


The need for stealth was past.


‘I’ll go in first, unarmed,’ Roland announced. ‘I’ll signal if it’s safe for you to join me.’


‘I’m coming too,’ said Ralph. ‘If something happens to you and you can’t get a message out – well . . .’


Roland looked at him. ‘You don’t have to.’


‘I do.’ He shrugged. ‘Tanky is stinking out the place. 
Really
 badly.’


‘We don’t have more bedding to absorb stuff!’ Robyn protested.


‘Never mind that now. Check the weapons, make sure you’re ready,’ Roland instructed. ‘If things go to hell . . .’


‘We’ll be ready,’ Niko said solemnly.


Ralph followed his father out into the sultry heat. The studio’s sliding doors did not open as they approached.


‘This is super‑awkward,’ said Ralph. ‘What if they recognise us and just call the cops?’


When his dad ignored him, he took his arm. ‘Dad, I’m not sure you’re going to make the best first impression when you look like you’re ready for battle. Maybe lose the combat vest?’


Roland considered, then did as Ralph suggested. He rang a metal buzzer and looked up into the CCTV camera above the door. ‘This is Roland Ballantyne,’ he said. ‘Please, don’t call the authorities. The charges against me are false and I can prove it – with your help. I’d like to see the station manager. I just want to talk.’


The entreaty was met with silence. Then a crackle came from the intercom on the door and a woman’s voice followed it. ‘You’re real funny. Come back at Halloween, you sick jerk.’


‘Look at me!’ Roland shook his head. ‘This isn’t a joke. I’m Roland Ballantyne.’


‘Yep, there you are, public enemy number one. And you’ve come to give yourself up on local TV! Cute,’ she said, her voice deadpan. ‘Thing is, there’s only me and my content producer in the building. Why don’t you go bother News 24? I hear they have a canteen.’


‘Please,’ Ralph said, standing in front of his father so the camera got a clear view of him. ‘Just see us for a few minutes. We don’t have the virus, we don’t have masks, but –’


‘All right. We have masks in reception.’ The woman’s tone had changed; she sounded wary all of a sudden. ‘Sit down in the chairs in the far‑left corner. We’ll be down.’


The doors sighed open.


‘Good.’ Roland turned to Ralph. ‘It took you to convince her, though.’


‘I have an honest face,’ said Ralph, ‘and it’s splashed over 
WANTED
 signs, same as yours is.’


‘Two fugitives for the price of one.’ Roland paused. ‘She could be calling the cops.’


‘She’d want to get her cameras ready to interview us first,’ Ralph argued. ‘I mean, we’re newsworthy, right?’


‘Right.’ Roland scooped up his jacket and strode through the open doors.


With a last look back at the motorhome, Ralph took a deep breath and followed his father inside.


 


Grant was sitting in the warehouse again with his dad and the van Roks. He had told the others what had happened, and all four had been elated. But over time, the mood had changed, and Grant found he felt all but forgotten about. Gerhard had vacated his makeshift workstation some time before, and who knew what Zuma and her soldiers were planning now.


‘What do you think they’re gonna do?’ Luke asked.


‘They’ll have to let us go,’ Max reassured him. ‘Of course, they may make us sign something to say we won’t take legal action against them, but –’


‘What?’ Mr van Rok frowned at him. ‘You think they’re worried about solicitors? Did you see my son’s 
face
?’


‘Leave it, Dad,’ Luke said, his hands straying self‑consciously to the scars he’d got from Gerhard’s creations.


‘These animals need to be killed!’ van Rok snarled. ‘That evidence must be used . . .’ He trailed off as Gerhard came back into the room, this time with Mbato. Though it sickened him, Grant still felt an instinct to stand, or nod or show respect to the president. But he made himself stay very, very still.


Mbato marched up to Max Khumalo, his face hard. ‘I knew that crap about the safari park in Addo was a coded message.’


Max shook his head. ‘Roland Ballantyne and I were there –’


‘That much is true,’ Mbato agreed. ‘I’ve reviewed the reports and footage of that day. You opened the park, and Ballantyne may even have attended in some capacity, but there was no rhino, no Jacaranda . . .’


Max waved away his protest. ‘I assure you –’


Mbato swung the back of his hand into Max’s face, knocking him clear out of his chair.


Grant jumped up. ‘Don’t you –’


‘Don’t what?’ Mbato grabbed Grant by the throat. ‘Well, Max? What secret message were you trying to get through to Ballantyne? Answer me.’ He tightened his grip; Grant’s breath came out in a throttled gasp as his windpipe was slowly crushed. ‘Answer me quickly.’


‘For heaven’s sake.’ Max wiped blood from his mouth and got to his knees. ‘Let Grant go. I’ll . . . I’ll tell you.’


‘No need,’ said Gerhard brightly, standing beside Mbato. ‘He’ll keep lying to you. Stalling for time. I’ve found out where Ballantyne must be.’


Grant pulled himself free of Mbato’s grip and collapsed to the floor, his temples pounding, wheezing for breath.


Mbato had already turned away to face Gerhard. ‘Well?’


‘I heard Zuma being told that a motorhome was stolen from a dealer’s in Malelane. If Ballantyne left Crocodile Lodge by river, then he could reach Malelane.’


‘Go on,’ said Mbato.


‘The last reported sighting of the motorhome was on Delfos Road. That’s not far from Pretoria’s dreary public access TV station –’


‘Jacaranda,’ Mbato broke in, with a sneering look down at Grant’s dad. ‘He must believe that someone will take notice of his 
evidence
, even after everything we’ve done to destroy his reputation.’


‘It’s possible that they will,’ said Gerhard. ‘I think you need to arrange some damage limitation, Julius.’


‘Like I did in Gauda, you mean?’ Mbato shot back. ‘Wiping out a whole village to try to contain 
your
 virus? That failed.’


‘Well, yes, I never expected that your sledgehammer approach would work,’ said Gerhard mildly. ‘But by doing things 
my
 way this time . . . success is guaranteed.’ He crossed to his workstation. ‘I’ll make some calls, get some equipment brought in. In the meantime, get Zuma to keep the station under surveillance – 
discreetly
. No need for them to know we’re on to them yet.’


Mbato nodded slowly and turned to his prisoners. ‘The four of you can go along too, as hostages. If we threaten you, we can force the Ballantynes to come out.’


‘Or to stay inside,’ said Gerhard quietly.


Still feeling dizzy and sick, Grant saw Luke mouth to him, ‘What does he mean?’


He had no answer.


OceanofPDF.com













24


In the kitchen compartment, Robyn rubbed her stiff back, watching through the window for signs of movement while Niko checked Tanky. The woolly rhino’s breathing was rasping, and he seemed listless, his red eyes barely showing beneath drooping lids.


‘Something’s affecting his upper airway,’ said Niko. ‘Maybe some sort of laryngeal paralysis from the acid fumes? Or an infection? Then again, what the hell do I know? This animal needs a vet.’ She got up wearily. ‘I’ll say one thing, though. Tanky’s coped with a whole lot more than any human patient would.’


‘So far,’ said Robyn, her heart heavy. ‘I’m worried about what will happen to him when he’s taken away from us. We’ve been through so much together . . .’


‘He’s not a pet, Rob,’ said Niko. ‘He’s a predasaur. Programmed to be a killer.’


‘That’s not his fault,’ Robyn insisted. ‘They won’t destroy him, will they?’


‘He doesn’t belong in today’s world,’ said Niko sadly. ‘There are no others like him, no native habitat, no other animals he can learn behaviour from . . . If the laboratory lets him go, I suppose he’ll end up a freak exhibit in a zoo.’


‘What a great story!’ came a man’s voice from outside the motorhome. ‘Would you care to come into the studio and share with me? Your shaggy friend too.’


Robyn and Niko froze.


‘It’s all right.’ It was Ralph’s voice. ‘This is Benni – he’s the station’s content producer. He works with Mayeni, the station controller. She’s talking to Dad right now.’


Robyn opened one of the rear doors and peered out. Ralph, wearing a mask, was standing a few metres away, with a tired‑looking middle‑aged man with dreadlocks. His mask drew attention to his smiling eyes; he had the soft, inquiring expression of one in love with life’s ability to surprise. ‘Whoa!’ He looked at their combat gear, one eyebrow raised. ‘Ready for war, huh? You must be Robyn and Niko,’ he said. ‘I’m Benni Radebe. Nice to meet you.’


Robyn found herself smiling back. ‘Sorry, we don’t have masks,’ she said. ‘For what it’s worth, we’ve both had the virus.’


‘And survived?’ Benni kept his mask on. ‘Well, everyone says it’s your virus, after all. Makes sense it goes easy on you.’


From his tone and the crinkle around his eyes, Robyn could see he was still grinning.


‘Forgive me. Misplaced levity, I know. Sure, you’ve been through enough. But it’s so rare that I meet real celebrities! Oh, you too, sir,’ he added, doffing an imaginary hat to Tanky, then laughing. ‘I’m serious – can we get this hairy fellow inside for the cameras? He’s gorgeous! And an opportunity like this doesn’t come along often. Not at Jacaranda TV at least.’


‘Excuse me,’ said Niko, ‘but how are you taking all this in your stride? I mean, us being here, Roland, an extinct species of rhinoceros . . .’


Benni nodded. ‘Let me tell you. Local news has dropped off a bit since the new lockdown started, as you can imagine. Me and Mayeni have kept going, helping people feel connected, you know? We’ve had more time on our hands than usual and –’


‘Guys, you know Gerhard’s deepfake footage of us? Seems that bit with Dad was sourced from Jacaranda TV!’ Ralph broke in, and Robyn brightened to hear how excited he sounded


‘Your main man gave a talk at an anti‑hunting rally,’ Benni said. ‘We were shooting there. Cameras, I mean. Anyway, Mayeni noticed that the original had been messed around with. Words were taken from the speech he made and put in a different order . . .’


‘So they were already suspicious about the rest of the story,’ Ralph went on, excited. ‘Mayeni’s looking at the footage with Dad right now.’


‘Do you mind!’ Benni cried with mock severity. ‘I haven’t talked to anyone new face to face in an age, young man – won’t you let me milk it a little?’


‘You believe us, then?’ Robyn said, hugging herself. ‘You don’t think we’re the ones who started this?’


‘If that’s really a woolly rhinoceros, then I believe you,’ said Benni. ‘Now, if we could get him ready for his close‑up . . .’


‘He needs to be looked over by a vet before he does anything,’ Robyn asserted, with a quick look at Niko for support. Niko nodded. ‘He’s already been through so much.’


‘I think you all have,’ said Benni with a sigh. ‘All right. I’ll see what I can do. Meanwhile, come inside where it’s more comfortable.’


Robyn felt suddenly afraid. Benni seemed so warm and friendly, but was it a trick? A trap? She looked at Ralph.


‘I think we have to trust them,’ he said.


Benni nodded slowly. ‘Likewise,’ he said. ‘We want to be nice to you, so you’ll be nice to us. Like, exclusive media rights, you know? You could put Mayeni and me on the map.’


‘I’m more afraid we could wipe you right off it,’ said Niko. ‘Sounds melodramatic, I know, but we have –’


‘Powerful enemies?’ Benni nodded sympathetically. ‘And a distinct lack of caffeine in your lives, I reckon? Let’s take this inside and talk. Flat whites all round. Cappuccino for the rhino.’


Niko looked at Ralph, amazed. ‘Is this for real?’


‘Well.’ He considered. ‘I definitely smelled coffee.’


‘It’s better that we’re caught inside with Dad than out here alone,’ Robyn said. ‘If Tanky’s OK with it, I say we go.’ Tanky looked up at her and made a thick snuffling noise.


‘Close enough,’ she declared.


 


Ralph couldn’t remember ever having enjoyed a coffee more. They were sitting in the TV station’s only studio. The space was quiet, softly lit and smelled of fresh paint and new carpets; it looked as if it had been set up for a news programme. Ralph sat in a comfy chair on a small, raised stage; beside him was the presenter’s desk with a green screen behind it. Two lightweight Sony HD cameras stood on slim but sturdy tripods to capture the broadcast from different angles. The ceiling was about six metres high and soundproofed with black foam panels: spotlights hung from it, controlled by a high‑tech mixing desk for sound and video positioned to the left of the doors. Microphones attached to boom poles stood in a rack, but Ralph noticed a small pile of wireless clip‑on mics in a plastic box on the desk. The space looked ready to be used, except for a tangle of cables dangling from the ceiling.


Ralph felt a strange feeling in his chest, and wondered at first if it was due to the caffeine. Then he realised with a shock that it was actually 
optimism
.


Just by articulating it, he crushed the feeling dead.


He started as the double doors to the scene dock opened, where props and other gear that the station’s staff needed easy access to were stored, but it was only his dad and Mayeni, the station controller. She was a woman in her thirties. She sat in a wheelchair, and had close‑cut hair and a deadpan manner. Ralph found her dry charm made him want to do his best for her; he imagined she would be an inspiring character in a busy TV studio.


He had been with Mayeni and his dad when she’d viewed the footage of Mbato and Gerhard, and they couldn’t have hoped for a more rewarding reaction. She’d sat bolt upright in her chair. ‘You know, if I could jump up in amazement, I would. It’s not pretty when my jaw bounces off my lap,’ she’d said.


Their footage, and Benni’s excitement over the woolly rhino in the motorhome, had convinced her to run with a ‘breaking news’ announcement.


Roland was asking Mayeni now, ‘Are you sure you can’t post the footage online straight away?’


‘Not a good idea. The “fake news” brigade will be out in force. The president’s office will rig an army of bots to discredit the news so when we do go on air, the public will doubt our story. Trust me, Roland, an announcement like this has to be handled carefully, with context.’ Mayeni rolled her chair up the ramp to the presenter’s desk. ‘First, we run a special bulletin. I reveal the doctored footage designed to incriminate you and your loved ones, comparing it to the original. Then we show your woolly rhino – give him a starring role as we expose the predasaurs, and your kids can talk about their ordeal at the hands of Gerhard and his shock ally, President Mbato.’ She pulled a pantomime horror face, then looked at Ralph. ‘You gonna be all right with that, kid? I know you’ve been through some stuff.’


‘I’m good,’ said Ralph, nodding. ‘We can tell you what we went up against – giant hyenas, cave lions, crocodile monsters resurrected from ancient DNA –’


‘Whoa, whoa.’ Mayeni waved her hands. ‘Too much, too quick. I’ll ask you easy questions, and you keep the answers brief. Play things down a little, OK? People are gonna find it tough to swallow all this in one go. I mean, me? I’m gonna have indigestion for a month.’


‘So, when you’ve talked to my children,’ said Roland, ‘then it’s my turn?’


‘Yeah, and you get to introduce the main attraction,’ said Mayeni. ‘The CCTV footage of Mbato and Gerhard.’ She reached for one of the clip‑on wireless microphones. ‘What time is it now, Ralphie?’


Ralph checked his watch. ‘Coming up for one‑twenty.’


Mayeni nodded. ‘Then I reckon we can schedule our big announcement to the world for two o’clock, when we go national over satellite.’


‘Two o’clock?’ said Ralph unhappily. ‘If we’re gonna have max impact, wouldn’t the evening be better?’


‘I don’t think you can afford to wait,’ said Mayeni. ‘As soon as Benni gets here, I’ll put out a local teaser trail.’


Roland frowned. ‘Mbato and Gerhard are bound to hear about it. They’ll move to shut you down at once.’


‘Well, no publicity is bad publicity,’ Mayeni said wryly. ‘I’ll just say we’ve got something that’s gonna throw a hella hand grenade into pandemic and politics. A scandal that’s gonna blow what people thought they knew so far out the water it’ll land somewhere in Mali.’


‘Surely,’ Roland persisted, ‘it’s safest to post the footage online? You can watermark the footage with the station logo if you’re worried about other news stations stealing it and using it.’


‘Cynical, much?’ Mayeni arched a plucked eyebrow, then shrugged and started scribbling notes on a piece of paper. ‘But you’re right. I’m taking a risk on you. So forgive me if I want some personal visibility in my quest for truth and justice. But I’ll make this material open source, yeah? I’ll post the raw files online, freely available to any network to show and for experts to study.’


Ralph could hardly dare believe it; their story would be out at last. If only Grant and Luke were here to share the moment. He wondered where they were, and if they were all right.


They can handle themselves
, he thought. 
They’ll be all right
. But he knew the stakes couldn’t be higher for Gerhard and the president. What wouldn’t they try to cling on to power and freedom?


The earthy smell of manure wafted through the scene dock doors as Benni came in with Tanky, Robyn and Niko. While Robyn gripped the lead rope in both hands, Niko had improvised a second lead from a canvas strap looped through a ring anchor on the other side of the harness. Together, they were able to hold the juvenile rhino steady enough.


‘How are you going to stop him running around trashing the place?’ Benni asked, his features creased in concern.


‘Can we tie him to something?’ Robyn wondered.


‘Woman in a chair here,’ said Mayeni, not looking up from her scribblings. ‘Use a grab rail – they’re all over. Keep it tied up tight, though, please. We don’t want it getting into shot. Benni, I want to go live with a newsflash.’


‘Titles already cued up,’ Benni said, suddenly smooth and professional. ‘Let’s just frame you nicely . . .’


Ralph got out of his chair, making sure he was out of shot. He helped Niko and Robyn secure Tanky to the grab rail by the scene dock, making sure that Tanky had enough rope to move about a bit, but not so much that he could break free and terrorise the studio.


‘OK, Benni, get me close‑up on Camera One.’ Mayeni brushed down her jacket as Benni moved the camera, placing her in shot. ‘Ready when you are.’


‘Good to go,’ said Benni, crossing to the mixing console. ‘In five, four . . .’ He counted down the remaining numbers with his fingers then hit a green button, which lit up. On a monitor, Ralph saw an animated title sequence start up and the news programme’s urgent, driving theme tune blasted from the studio speakers. A logo for Jacaranda News spun into focus, then the title faded to a shot of Mayeni at the desk, looking serious.


‘This is an urgent news announcement,’ she said. ‘At two o’clock, Jacaranda TV will bring you a special programme that reveals incredible truths about the current media narratives around the pandemic and the presidency. Everything you think you know is a lie. To discover the truth, join me, Mayeni Marten, at 2 p.m. South Africa Standard Time.’


She held her serious expression until the station logo faded back up on the monitor, which then went dark.


‘And . . . cut. We’re off the air,’ said Benni.


‘That went out on local TV?’ asked Robyn.


‘And to the live feed on our website,’ said Mayeni.


‘You were amazing,’ Ralph said. ‘Without even any rehearsal.’


‘It’s not my first rodeo,’ Mayeni said casually. ‘And you’re right, amazing’s the word. How I did that with that shaggy rhino‑thing in my eyeline, I’ll never know. It doesn’t look too fierce just now, but I’m guessing . . .’


‘He’s still woozy from the tranquiliser,’ Robyn explained.


‘I may have given him too high a dose,’ Niko said quietly. ‘He’s been through a lot . . .’


‘You sound sorry for it,’ Mayeni said brusquely. ‘Isn’t it meant to be a monster?’


‘He’s an animal!’ Robyn said fiercely. ‘He was born in pain, and designed for aggression. He didn’t ask to be born, and he can’t help what’s been done to him.’ She shook her head. ‘The sooner that vet arrives, the better.’


‘Vet?’ Roland frowned. ‘What are you talking about?’


‘Rob and Niko asked me to call a vet,’ said Benni. ‘I know one – a friend of a friend. There was no one there so I left a message. I didn’t go into specifics about the patient.’


‘We can’t take the chance of telling any more outsiders before the broadcast,’ Roland insisted. ‘After it’s aired, then of course we can help him. But until then . . .’


He trailed off as a phone rang in reception.


‘I bet that’s the vet now!’ Benni said brightly. ‘All good, I’ll tell him to hold fire.’ He walked out through to reception and picked up the phone. Ralph earwigged, to hear what he would say.


But Benni didn’t speak. He came back into the room, looking shaken.


Mayeni straightened in her chair. ‘Who was that?’


‘They didn’t give a name,’ Benni said. ‘Just told me that if Jacaranda broadcasts anything today, the whole place is gonna burn, and us with it.’


As the chilling message sank in, Robyn felt her blood run cold. ‘Someone’s on to us.’


‘It’s good to know we have one keen viewer, anyway,’ said Mayeni breezily, but Robyn could see the fear she was trying to mask. ‘Seems you were right, Roland. You said Mbato and Gerhard could move against us at any time.’


‘You think that was them?’ Benni looked appalled. ‘They mean what they say, don’t they?’


‘Yes,’ said Roland simply. ‘They must be monitoring transmissions.’


‘Then if we do try to do this show at two o’clock,’ said Ralph, ‘they’ll kill us!’


‘We’re finished,’ said Niko.


‘Are we?’ Roland looked thoughtful. ‘If they’re going to burn us down, they’ll come here. Likely in person, now they’ve got us – they won’t want to miss this.’


‘They’ll send in the army!’ Benni put his hands to his head. ‘They’ll blow us to bits, blame it on you . . .’


‘They’ll want to gloat first,’ said Roland.


‘Figures,’ Robyn agreed.


Niko was hovering beside Roland, but all his attention was on the studio video mixer.


‘So, Benni,’ he said, ‘I’m thinking that this desk takes the video and audio sources and mixes them into one output signal, is that right?’


Benni nodded. ‘We call that the transport stream.’


‘How does this transport stream get to a TV antenna for broadcast?’


‘Through a fibre‑optic cable, all the way to the Sentech Tower outside Joburg,’ Mayeni told him. ‘Also by uplink to satellite and cable TV providers –’


Roland interrupted. ‘And the OB van must have its own video mixer? So it can receive signals from here?’


‘Fibre‑optic uplinks again,’ Benni agreed.


‘Dad,’ Robyn snapped, ‘what does any of this matter?’


‘Wait,’ Roland told her, studying the desk. ‘One more thing, Benni. All this cabling – where is it routed?’


‘They feed into the uplink ports on a master board – there are cable runs above the soundproofing panels in the ceiling,’ said Benni. ‘If there are any loose connections, I just take off the panels, locate the problem and fix it.’


Ralph’s head was starting to spin. Was his dad finally cracking under the strain? ‘Dad, how does knowing all this help us?’


‘I’ll explain in a minute. We’re against the clock,’ said Roland. He looked at Benni as if properly noticing him for the first time. ‘You’re frightened.’


‘What gave it away?’ said Benni dryly.


‘Frightened enough to get the hell out of here,’ Roland went on, ‘in the first transport you can lay your hands on.’


‘What are you on about, Dad?’ Ralph asked.


‘We’ve got about half an hour until the broadcast is due to start.’ Roland gave a crooked smile as he looked around at his family. ‘You know the drill. Who prepares, wins.’


OceanofPDF.com













25


Grant was sweating so hard he had to peel himself off the leather seat of the people carrier as he, Luke and their fathers were driven through the empty streets of the city, part of a military convoy. Zuma was in front in the Mamba, an armoured personnel carrier. Mbato rode in a black limousine, flanked by armed motorcycle escorts, and the people carrier followed some distance away. They weren’t last in line, though; Grant kept craning his neck to keep tabs on the large, shiny black truck that rumbled along behind them.


‘I didn’t see Gerhard get in with Mbato,’ said his dad.


‘Maybe he went on ahead,’ Grant suggested. ‘Or maybe he’s in that truck. What’s in there, d’you think?’


‘No idea,’ said Luke.


‘Equipment? Personnel?’ said Max Khumalo. ‘Does it matter?’


‘From where I was sitting, I had a limited view of Gerhard’s screen,’ said Mr van Rok. ‘He had presidential approval to authorise an EMP attack.’


‘A what now?’ said Luke.


‘An electromagnetic pulse attack,’ van Rok clarified, ‘to disrupt or destroy electronic components by inducing an electrical current, causing them to overload. Anything that uses transistors, microchips, integrated circuits –’


‘Gets fried,’ Luke concluded.


‘I thought that was some kind of sci‑fi thing,’ said Max. ‘I know nuclear bombs create the same effect through gamma waves –’


‘But this is a military weapon,’ said Mr van Rok. ‘It’s all classified, of course, but my company was one of the contractors involved. We designed a bank of super‑capacitors to generate huge volumes of electrical energy in a very short space of time.’


‘Good job, Dad,’ said Luke, rolling his eyes.


‘So, Mbato can take out the TV studios,’ Grant realised. ‘Blow all their electronics so they can’t record or transmit anything –’


‘Along with anything else electronic within a radius of who knows how far,’ van Rok said. ‘It could leave a large chunk of Pretoria without power – hospitals, businesses, schools, transport . . .’


‘So, it’ll be a weapon of last resort,’ Max ventured. ‘Surely?’


‘You’d think,’ said Grant. ‘Even for someone as callous as Mbato.’


‘It’d blow the fuses in his limo,’ Luke pointed out. ‘He’s not gonna want to walk back home, is he?’


‘Which makes me wonder,’ said Grant uneasily. ‘What is their weapon of 
first
 choice?’


 


Ralph watched from reception as Benni scrambled into the OB van and careered away across the car park as if the studio was already on fire. Who knew how long they had until the enemy arrived?


Mayeni rolled over to the reception desk and turned a key in an electronic system. Metal shutters clanked down from the ceiling to cover the windows and doors. On a monochrome screen on the desk, Ralph saw a view of the scene dock from a CCTV camera outside: a metal shutter was sliding down there as well.


‘May as well lock ourselves in,’ she said.


‘Why didn’t you leave with Benni?’ Ralph asked. ‘Why risk your life by staying here?’


‘I’m a journalist,’ she said simply. ‘I believe that I should be able to tell the stories I think need telling, no matter what anyone says.’


‘But you could be killed,’ said Ralph.


‘I know.’ She sighed and closed her eyes. ‘Just imagine the obituaries. 
She never let her disability hold her back
, 
how inspiring
, blah blah. Well, I’m not having that yet! Not until I break national TV, anyway. Then I’ll be so utterly inspiring, it’ll make your head spin.’ She turned and wheeled away, back inside the studio. Ralph followed her, feeling tension squeeze his temples. Robyn sat beside Tanky, her head in her hands.


Roland seemed more energised again. ‘Now, I saw extra cabling in the scene dock when we came in, along with an extending ladder,’ he said. ‘Ralph, Niko, can you fetch them?’


‘Fine,’ said Ralph, and Niko nodded.


‘Robyn, you’re with me,’ said Roland, heading towards reception. ‘Niko, when you’ve got the ladder, help Ralph take down a couple of those ceiling tiles.’


‘What for?’ she said.


‘Because Ralph’s going up there, inside the cable run.’ Roland gave him a sympathetic look. ‘He’s the only one who can.’


 


Robyn looked down at the mess of cables hanging from underneath the reception desk. One by one, she was tracing which input needed to go to which output connector.


If Dad’s plan doesn’t work
, she thought, 
we’re all dead
.


She glanced at the four small black‑and‑white screens stacked on top of each other which showed CCTV views from around the TV station. Nothing untoward was showing. Yet.


Then Robyn looked inside the studio. Mayeni sat at the video mixing desk, fiddling with something or other, while Niko was unwinding fibre‑optic cable from a spool and Ralph – who’d removed his combat vest – balanced at the top of the ladder, wrestling down the soundproofed tiles. In the midst of all this activity, Tanky stood, watching them through sharp red eyes. Now and then he would rumble out a groan or make an eerie keening noise. Her heart went out to him.


They had just twenty‑five minutes left before two o’clock.


 


In the people carrier, Grant swallowed hard. The convoy had reached the unassuming headquarters of Jacaranda TV. Its front entrance was hidden behind white metal shutters.


Here we go
, he thought.


He watched the presidential limo pull up as far from Zuma and the people carrier as possible. The driver got out, stalked around the limo and opened the door for Mbato, who peered this way and that before finally deciding that he wasn’t being observed and climbing out. The angular figure of Josef Gerhard appeared from around the corner of the building. He held a tablet, and a soldier trailed behind him holding a large carry case.


‘What are you up to?’ Grant breathed.


 


Robyn sat beside Tanky, watching her brother vanish into the narrow crawl space that formed the cable run. Her dad was working with Mayeni, using a can of pressurised air to blast the dust from cables and connectors in the back of the video desk.


Please let this work
, she thought. 
Let this broadcast be seen. 


Niko appeared, carrying a bucket of water. ‘I thought Tanky might need some,’ she said, and put it down near his head. ‘We’ll have to loosen his harness a little so he can drink –’


Abruptly, Tanky lunged at Niko, knocking her over. His eyes shining red, he shrieked through the restraint harness as he lowered his head to try to gore her. Roland ran over to grab Niko and pull her away.


‘No! Stop,’ Robyn shouted, placing her hands against the side of Tanky’s head, trying to make eye contact with him. But the woolly rhino turned his attention from Niko to Robyn; he swung his great shaggy head and the stump of his horn cracked against Robyn’s temple. She fell, heard the stamp of heavy feet, and another hoarse cry of frustration. The straps that secured Tanky to the grab rail were at full stretch; he could get no further.


Robyn rolled away and scrambled up, dazed. She put a hand up to her head, and felt a lump the size of an egg already forming. She winced. Tanky made horrible, high‑pitched grunts like a creature in a frenzy, his red eyes full of hatred.


Mayeni was staring in horror at the rhino. ‘So. It really 
is
 a monster.’


Roland pulled Robyn gently away. ‘You all right?’


‘I think we’ve lost him,’ she whispered. ‘I swear the real animal was getting through. But look . . .’


The woolly rhino’s eyes were weeping and ruby red.


But Roland’s eyes were fixed on the black‑and‑white monitors in reception, and on the vehicles they showed moving into sight. ‘We have company. Gerhard and Mbato have arrived.’


Again, the rhino strained against his restraints. Robyn heard a heavy ripping sound, as a strap was beginning to give way. When it did . . .


‘Maybe we should clear out and get upstairs,’ she said.


‘Not yet,’ said Roland. ‘There’s too much to do down here first.’


Tanky screeched again. He seemed to agree.


 


Ralph brushed sweat from his forehead, banging his elbow against the wall of the cable run as he did so. It was dark and stiflingly warm; there wasn’t quite enough room for him to crawl on hands and knees, so he had to pull himself along, dragging the fibre‑optic cable along with him.


He wasn’t one hundred per cent sure how his task would ensure that the broadcast was seen by those who needed to see it. But he trusted his dad to know what he was talking about.


And I trust myself to do what he needs me to do
, Ralph thought. 
Xai was right. I’m an adventurist. This is my adventure
.


The cable run was framed with steel scaffolding; the only light came in slivers through gaps in the metal and plastic panels. It was hot, frustrating work. Every now and then the cable got caught on something, or dragged around a bend in the run, and he had to shake the cable until it came loose again: all the time knowing that if the tiny glass fibres cracked and broke, all his work would be for nothing.


Ralph lay still for a moment in the confined space, his chest tight. 
No time for a heart attack
, he told himself. By his reckoning, he still had a way to go before he reached the master board, where the cable was supposed to connect.


Over the thump of his heart, he could hear a hissing. Air con, he supposed.


Then a new noise stole into the cramped space. A clacking, like two hard surfaces tapping together, sinister in the near‑dark. He couldn’t identify it.


Ralph’s body turned to ice when he realised the tapping was 
inside
 the conduit. He squirmed desperately around to look behind him. He glimpsed something shiny and black further down the cable run.


It was getting closer.


OceanofPDF.com













26


Robyn grunted as she pushed the upholstered couch, helping her dad move it across the studio to block the door to reception. Behind them, by the scene dock, Tanky was straining harder, working up his anger and aggression, throwing his head from side to side to try and tear the harness off.


‘I can’t see a couch holding back Captain Zuma for long,’ said Robyn, manoeuvring the legs of the couch over the cables that stretched from the reception desk.


‘Seems pretty desperate, doesn’t it?’ Roland gave her a brief smile. ‘I’d pity an enemy utilising sofas in a theatre of war.’


Niko was manhandling a filing cabinet over to add to the little barricade. ‘You think Zuma will feel sorry for us and let us go?’


‘The goals of Zuma’s squad will be to gain entry and secure the studio before we broadcast at two. They have superior numbers, superior resources. We can’t defend the whole building, can’t stop them gaining entry. But I want to show them we’re trying to defend ourselves with whatever we have to hand. Mbato and Gerhard enjoy toying with their enemies, showing them just how powerful they are.’


Robyn reflected and realised it was true. ‘They love to gloat.’


‘Precisely.’ Roland stood up as they pushed the sofa into position. ‘And if they’re engaging with us, then they’re holding off the main assault.’


‘Nice reasoning,’ said Mayeni. ‘But they’re not going to hold it off forever.’


Tanky gave another rumbling roar, pulling against his straps. He took a few steps back, then tried charging forward until he came up short. The blue straps quivered, but held.


Niko looked anxious as Tanky backed away to try again. ‘It’s like . . . he’s on repeat.’


‘Programmed,’ Robyn agreed. ‘But he can’t be. You took out the chip!’


Mayeni rolled up to them. ‘Don’t you have anything in your neat first‑aid kit to calm it down?’


‘I can’t give human drugs to an animal,’ Niko snapped.


‘No?’ Mayeni raised her hands in apology. ‘Jeez, Ms Scruples, I’d sure take some animal tranquilisers right now! Anyone else have a tight chest?’


‘Actually, yes,’ Robyn realised. ‘And I feel sick.’ She glanced up at the ceiling, at the length of fibre‑optic cable hanging down to the desk. ‘I guess Ralph hasn’t reached the master board yet.’


‘And time’s running out,’ Niko said softly as Tanky lumbered forward, straining and tossing his head in fury.


The phone rang again in reception.


‘Maybe it’s the neighbours, asking your rhino to keep the noise down,’ Mayeni said sarcastically.


‘Do we answer it?’ Robyn asked.


‘We can’t reach it,’ said Roland calmly. ‘Not without breaching our magnificent barricade.’


‘Don’t you want to hear what they have to say?’


Roland smiled tightly. ‘If it’s important, they’ll come to us in person.’


 


Ralph scrambled desperately along the cable run dragging the cable behind him, praying it wouldn’t snag on anything now. Looking behind, he caught glimpses of something shiny: insectoid, but monstrously and terrifyingly huge. Pincers and an arched tail flashed in and out of the light.


Scorpion
, he thought, remembering the attack on Robyn and Grant in the animal centre. 
More of them. But why are they up here?
 The unpleasant answer followed hard on the question’s heels: 
Oh God, they must have been released into the air‑con system. From the roof, maybe? There’s no CCTV up there . . .


For a panicked moment, he imagined the pincers of the scorpion scissoring through the fibre‑optic cable. But was it here to hunt him, or for some other purpose? Either way, the creature was constrained by the narrowness of the conduit almost as much as Ralph was; its thick arched tail was held close to its back as it advanced, the point of its stinger tapping against its bony skin.


Ralph found he couldn’t move forward any more. The damn cable was stuck again. All he could do was flatten himself on his belly as much as possible and keep very, very still as the scorpion scuttled closer. He felt a pincer or a leg pushing roughly at his side, as if it wanted to squeeze up beside him. His eyes closed, he felt the scorpion change tack, compressing its monstrous body as best it could, climbing over his calves, then his thighs. He had to suppress a groan of fear as its weight pressed down on his lower back. It was going to climb right over him.


Suddenly, Ralph thrust his hips and back upwards as violently as he could, pinning the scorpion against the steel lattice that ran above him. He felt its legs scrabble against him, felt a pincer close on his shoulder blade, pinching bone and flesh. Desperately, gasping with pain, he bucked and rocked as hard as he could and was finally rewarded with a crunch and a burst of vile‑smelling ichor, as the creature was crushed against the roof of the conduit.


Grimacing, Ralph wriggled out from under the wet, twitching carcass of the scorpion. 
I need to warn the others
, he thought. 
I don’t know how many more scorpions may be on the way
. The stuck cable had worked its way loose in the struggle, and he played out more from the spool as he crawled along. To his relief, the next junction was the one he was looking for – the wires running the length of the cable run all plunged into one complex master board, like rivers into a sea. His dad and Mayeni had told him where the cable was supposed to go, but here in the half‑light, with the sheer number of connections . . . ‘What the hell do I do?’ Ralph whispered helplessly. He found what he thought were the appropriate connectors and started plugging things in, praying he was right.


 


‘Twelve minutes to go,’ Robyn muttered, over another groan from Tanky. With Niko’s help, Mayeni had started filming him. ‘May as well make myself useful,’ she’d decided. ‘What kind of journalist wouldn’t document what’s going down here?’


Suddenly, Robyn tensed as she saw movement on the reception monitors. The CCTV in the broadcast centre’s reception area showed two figures advancing on the shuttered doorway. Even through the grille, she could tell it was Joseph Gerhard and President Mbato.


Niko lowered the camera and glanced up at the ceiling. ‘Here we go.’


‘Come out, little piggies,’ came Gerhard’s voice through the door intercom, as he poked a finger through one of the openings in the metal shutter and tapped on the glass door. ‘Or we’ll huff, and we’ll puff –’


Roland moved to the control desk and toggled the intercom control. ‘And you’ll blow us to bits?’ he said. ‘Another black ops “accident”, like when Gauda went up in flames?’


‘That’s enough,’ said Mbato, his voice deep and serious. ‘It doesn’t have to be this way, Ballantyne. Give it up.’


‘After we’ve made all this effort to get here?’ Roland said mildly.


‘Captain Zuma is holding hostages in the car outside,’ said Mbato. ‘Surrender now, or she will kill them all.’


‘Like she killed Xai,’ Gerhard needled. ‘Poor man. I heard his screams all the way from the bathrooms, where he locked me up.’


‘Counter‑offer,’ said Roland calmly, ignoring him. ‘I’m assuming you’ve read the transcript of the CCTV footage we have? I’ll hand you that footage if you let Grant and Luke go.’


Mbato scoffed. ‘That footage is clearly fake.’


‘And you haven’t even seen it!’ Mayeni called from behind them, taking the camera from Niko and training it on Roland and then on Robyn at the barricade. ‘Real convincing. Sorry, I mean, “Real convincing, 
sir
.” Well, perhaps I should take some more footage, huh?’


‘Two men filmed from a distance, obscured by a metal shutter,’ Mbato mocked. ‘That’s certainly “real convincing”.’


‘Mbato won’t give us Grant and Luke, Dad,’ said Robyn. ‘How will he make Mr Khumalo throw the election then?’ She forced herself to stay calm, even as Tanky roared again behind her. ‘And Mr van Rok won’t turn a blind eye to Gerhard putting spyware in his company’s microchips if his son is free, will he?’


‘Oh, Robyn,’ said Gerhard, tutting. ‘Everyone around here is focusing on the wrong things. You must see it’s too late for any of that now. All the players involved know far too much.’


Roland’s voice hardened. ‘The whole world’s going to know everything when we start broadcasting at two o’clock.’


‘Everything?’ Gerhard scoffed gently. ‘You have no idea what’s really happening here. What’s at stake.’


Mbato gave him a sideways look. ‘In any case, Ballantyne,’ said Mbato, ‘Captain Zuma has an EMP weapon right outside. Experimental but, I assure you, very effective. When operated, it’ll fry every last electronic component in this studio. No broadcast . . . and no proof.’


Robyn felt prickles rising on the back of her neck. ‘Then why don’t you use it?’


‘The president, authorising an assault that could leave half of Pretoria without power, medical aid and transport? Not even you would give that order.’ Anger simmered in Roland’s voice. ‘You’ve pledged to protect the people!’


‘If I do give the instruction, it will be because you left me no choice,’ said Mbato.


‘That’s what you’ll tell everyone, anyway,’ said Robyn. ‘Right? One more thing to blame on the Ballantynes. Or on our corpses, at any rate.’


‘No one has to die,’ Mbato went on. ‘The swell of public opinion when people find out that I captured you will let me coast to victory . . . and since Grant is so intimately involved with your campaign of terror, who will ever trust his father as leader?’


‘Good questions,’ Mayeni called again. ‘But here’s another – what happens to me and Benni? Are you going to pitch us to the public as the last victims of Roland Ballantyne’s killing spree? Cos even if by some miracle you 
do
 spare them, you can’t leave us alive to blow the lid off this.’


Gerhard looked at Mbato and shrugged. ‘She’s not stupid, is she? But only I could make her 
dumb
.’


Mbato scowled at him. ‘What the hell are you talking about?’


‘I’m through with leaving things to other people,’ said Gerhard calmly, ‘and through with leaving things to chance.’ He looked at Mbato and tutted. ‘You don’t see it, do you? I said that everyone around here is focusing on the wrong things. Didn’t I say that?’


‘You need to focus on stopping this broadcast –’


‘You’re so small‑minded, Julius,’ Gerhard complained. ‘My vaccine for the virus is in development. Combining my research with the natural antibodies in the Ballantynes’ blood and the plant cures of the Bakho people guarantees that I’ll be ahead of the pack.’


‘And you need me to authorise it,’ Mbato said heavily, ‘me to green‑light its use among the general population.’


‘And you need me to green‑light your election win,’ Gerhard said smoothly. ‘My technology will allow you to manipulate the vote‑counting machines, and ensure victory. But imagine how much simpler it would be if I could just tell people to vote for you . . . if people would shut up and do as they were told.’


Robyn frowned. ‘What are you saying? Surely you can’t control people like you do the scorpions, and the terror birds – or can you?’


‘The penny drops.’ Gerhard’s grey eyes bulged as his smile broadened. ‘Right now I can’t. But soon . . .’


‘You can’t be serious,’ Roland scoffed.


‘I controlled Mr van Rok by threatening his son,’ Gerhard said, as if this was the most reasonable behaviour in the world. ‘He knows how to break data security. I told him which companies to target, and he secured for me some most innovative techniques for the storage of information on strands of synthetic DNA.’


‘I heard that’s possible,’ Roland said slowly.


‘And you know that control of animals is possible, thanks to my research and development.’ Gerhard turned to Mbato. ‘Did you actually believe that I was making better‑behaved monsters for my video games? Creatures that would hunt and kill your political opponents?’


‘Gerhard, shut the hell up,’ Mbato hissed quietly.


‘I was always playing video games as a child,’ Gerhard said. ‘Controlling a character, making them do what I wanted. I loved the thrill of it, the satisfaction. It made me want to play more. But a truly good video game controls the player as much as they control its characters. That’s why I entered the market myself. Why I made 
Predasaur
 . . .’


‘What are you babbling about?’ Mbato said.


‘I now possess the means to store gigabytes of information on strands of DNA,’ said Gerhard. ‘That information‑rich DNA will carry genetic programming that allows sophisticated changes to be made to human cells. Adapting them. Making them 
receptive
.’


Robyn felt suddenly afraid. ‘Receptive to what? Being controlled?’


‘Imagine a soldier who feels no fear simply because they’re told not to,’ said Gerhard. ‘Or a population who’ll vote for someone like Julius Mbato, no matter what he’s done. Or people who have undesirable beliefs exterminating themselves! All this can be achieved.’


‘Never,’ Roland retorted. ‘Recreating extinct animals is clever, sure, but to control a human –’


‘Soon, I’ll be able to add the necessary technology to my vaccine,’ said Gerhard casually. ‘The entire population will receive it. Then, when I’m ready to target specific groups, I can activate the rogue genes inside the vaccine and manipulate people’s minds however I choose . . .’


Shaken, Robyn closed her eyes. 
Oh, Ralph
, she thought, 
I really hope you’ve done what you needed to do with those cables.


‘You’re insane, Gerhard,’ said Roland quietly.


But his words were almost drowned out as Tanky screeched again, tugging violently against his harness.


‘Surely,’ said Gerhard patiently, ‘it’s not so hard to comprehend my ambition? I mean, Robyn, Niko, I 
know
 you’re smart enough to understand that your dear little rhino is reverting to my control . . . but you’re just not quite smart enough to realise why.’


Robyn looked at Niko, and then back at Tanky.


And she screamed.


Two of the giant scorpion monsters were crawling into the studio from the direction of the scene dock. Two more came scuttling in behind them. The 
chik‑chik
 of their stingers scraping against their abdomens rattled through the studio.


We’re not the only ones working to achieve our goals
, Robyn thought. 
Gerhard was keeping us talking till the scorpions were here.


To kill us all.


‘Four of them!’ Niko’s hand went to her chest. ‘That tightness we all felt – that must be from the pure oxygen they need!’


‘Piped in through the air‑con system . . .’ Mayeni shrank back into her chair. ‘That’s how those giant thicktails got in.’


Robyn stared, horrified. One of the monster scorpions was flexing its stinger in strange, unnatural movements next to Tanky, and the woolly rhino rocked along in time: it was a revolting sight; like animals reduced to performing puppets.


‘You might have removed the data chip from the rhino,’ Gerhard called, ‘but the neural relays in its brain that receive the data chip’s control signals are still intact. And I’m glad to prove they respond to any other suitably programmed chip nearby . . .’


Roland reached automatically for the weapon at his hip, but there was nothing there. Mayeni yelled out as two of the scorpions jumped onto a camera, knocking it to the floor. The third scorpion joined them as they systematically stabbed their pincers and stingers into the camera and its lens as if they were prey, gouging and cracking the glass, then they started to peel away the plastic shell to get at the circuit boards.


‘Save the second camera!’ Roland roared, starting forward with Robyn just behind.


Then two panels in the ceiling burst away, clattering to the floor in front of Robyn – and half a dozen more 
pulmonoscorpius
 fell with them. The beasts landed with a thump and a clatter, blocking the way, their tiny red eyes burning.


They reared up as if sniffing the air, confused for a few seconds, pincers flexing.


Then, with horrible speed, the one nearest Robyn charged to attack.


OceanofPDF.com













27


With a yell of revulsion, Robyn kicked the 
pulmonoscorpius
. But as the creature recoiled it grabbed hold of her foot with a huge pincer and clamped down. Pain flared up Robyn’s leg as she tried desperately to pull away, but it was too strong. Roland grabbed a small side table and brought it down on the scorpion’s back, jarring it free.


‘No!’ Mayeni yelled. Robyn looked up to realise that the other scorpions were making for the one remaining lightweight camera.


Without thinking, Robyn ran and snatched up the camera on its chunky black tripod.


‘Here, Robyn!’ Niko shouted; she had scaled halfway up the ladder and held out her hands. Gripping the tripod, Robyn held up the precious camera to Niko.


At the same time, Roland Ballantyne was shouting to Mayeni: ‘The dust gun! Throw it to me!’


The can of pressurised air stood on the desk. Mayeni grabbed it and threw it to Roland. When her throw went wide, Robyn jumped over a scorpion and caught the can, tossing it to her dad.


By then, Roland had produced Xai’s cigar lighter and struck its flame. Holding the lighter at arm’s length, he sprayed the compressed air down over it – and created an instant flamethrower. A jet of orange flame consumed the scorpion in front of him; it flailed and curled in on itself with a fierce hiss.


Another of the monsters scuttled around behind him, its telson waving dangerously.


‘Roland, look out!’ Niko shouted.


He turned and waved the tongue of roiling flame into the monster’s path. It hissed and scuttled frantically away even as it caught fire, and smashed into the barricade.


Roland stopped spraying, gasped and dropped the lighter, clutching his wrist. Robyn went to help him, and saw that his hand was red and blistered from the strength of the flames. The scorpion creatures he’d burned were still alight, little tongues of blue licking at their chitinous wreckage.


A shout from Niko snatched Robyn’s focus. Most of the scorpions were still focused on destroying the camera – like the terror birds had behaved robotically until predator mode was engaged, Robyn realised – and they had massed at the base of the ladder, working together to knock it over. Niko was losing her balance.


‘Ha!’ Gerhard’s shout of triumph carried from reception. Robyn swung around at the sound; she’d forgotten about their audience. ‘If only we had cameras of our own in there. What a cut scene this would make! It’s so much more satisfying to see panic in close‑up . . .’


Mayeni turned her wheelchair and thrust herself forward in a brave attempt to break Niko’s fall. Niko landed heavily on top of her with the camera and its tripod; they shouted out as the wheelchair toppled over backwards.


The nightmarish scorpions swarmed towards them.


 


Grant fidgeted in the back of the people carrier, desperate to find out what was going on in the studio. The thought that Robyn was trapped inside with who knew what . . . 
The others too, of course
, he thought guiltily. But it was Robyn who was filling his thoughts.


‘Sit still,’ snarled the soldier in the driver’s seat, whose name was Dorries.


‘How much longer are you going to keep us here?’ Grant’s father demanded.


‘As long as I’m ordered to,’ Dorries retorted.


The sound of a car engine carried from the entrance of the studio car park. Luke was already straining to see. ‘Another camo jeep,’ he said.


‘The plates aren’t military,’ Mr van Rok noted. ‘Private citizen?’


Two soldiers had moved to block the jeep’s way, their weapons drawn.


‘Whoa! Whoa!’ The man in the car had his arms raised. ‘What’s going on?’


One of the soldiers was up in his face, his rifle trained through the side window. ‘Exit the vehicle! Now!’


‘Who the hell is that?’ Grant saw Dorries strain to see.


‘I’d’ve thought you’d have blockaded this area,’ Grant said.


‘Not enough troops,’ Dorries muttered. ‘Zuma’s stretched. We’re watching the exit points from the studio . . . or wasting time in here.’


‘Don’t shoot!’ The man in the camo jeep was now spreadeagled flat on the concrete. ‘I’m a vet! A wild animal vet, and I got a call to come down here. Urgent, they said!’


Still watching intently, Dorries shook his head. ‘This op is a bust,’ he muttered.


‘Damn right it is,’ Grant said – and lunged for Dorries’ gun with both hands. He wrestled it down so the muzzle was pointing away from them. At the same time, Luke dived forward and punched Dorries on the jaw. The soldier’s grip on the gun slackened; Grant managed to twist it free and swing the stock up into Dorries’ face. Stunned, nose bloodied, Dorries couldn’t fend off another blow, this time from Mr van Rok, to the side of the neck. He slumped down, unconscious.


The three of them looked at each other.


‘What do we do now?’ Luke whispered.


‘We’ve got a gun,’ said van Rok quietly.


Grant’s dad shook his head firmly. ‘Come out waving that thing and we’ll be shot dead.’


Grant peered out of the window, watching as the wildlife vet was put in an armlock and marched away, protesting. 
What do we do?
 he wondered, chewing his lip. 
What the hell do we do now?


 


Robyn watched in horror as the scorpions zeroed in on the fallen wheelchair. Niko was struggling to rise beneath the camera and its stand, but Mayeni lay helpless beside her, caught under the wheelchair.


‘Niko, the camera!’ she yelled. ‘That’s what they’re after.’


Quickly, Niko pushed the camera and tripod away from the women. But it still lay perilously close.


Beside Robyn, Roland had picked up Xai’s lighter, but his burnt fingers couldn’t strike the flame. Robyn saw a length of discarded cable on the floor, wrapped it around her fingers, then snatched both the lighter and the canister of pressurised air from his blistered hands. She ran forward, blasting a geyser of flame at the mass of scorpions. 
Xai’s still helping us in this fight
, she thought. The creatures scattered, one with its legs on fire. Robyn gasped and looked down at her hands; black, stinking smoke curled up from the cable’s plastic coating.


‘Be careful, Rob,’ Roland called to her. ‘Higher oxygen concentration . . . the flames burn harder!’


Niko was trying to drag Mayeni away from danger, but one of the scorpions was pursuing them. 
Priorities
, thought Robyn. Swapping the canister into her left hand, she ran after it and fired her improvised flamethrower again. The beast arched its back, its tail swiping at the air as flames blazed around it. Niko pushed her foot underneath its broad black belly and flipped it backwards.


The scorpion, hissing and still in flames, ran straight at Tanky.


Roaring with fear and rage, the woolly rhino lunged against his restraints and finally broke free.


‘No!’ Robyn yelled as the rhino charged forward, red eyes narrowed, the stump of his horn glinting under the studio lights. She dived aside, hitting the floor as he crashed into the video desk and was engulfed in the sparks that flew up from the impact. The fiery scorpion was still scuttling around, its movements more erratic. It ran at Robyn, its pincers snapping, but at the last minute changed course and was stamped on by Tanky as he struggled out, grunting, freeing his broken horn from the video desk. Robyn caught a flash of movement to her right, craned her neck and saw a nightmarish black shape scuttling towards her.


She jumped onto the video desk, even as her dad scooped up the camera and its mount from the floor. But one of the scorpions came with it, dark, bony and sinister, clinging on. Roland gasped through gritted teeth and shook it free. It landed right beside the snorting Tanky and whipped its tail. The telson jammed into Tanky’s shaggy hide. Tanky screeched and backed away, dragging the tangled scorpion with him, smashing his head down on its segmented body.


Niko screamed as one of the surviving scorpions climbed onto the side of the fallen wheelchair. She grabbed the thick, bristling segments at the top of its tail with both hands, trying to stop it stinging, but its pincers locked on to her arms. Gasping, yelling, she tried to roll clear of Mayeni’s prone form.


‘Incoming!’ came a shout.


Robyn looked up at the ceiling. She saw someone hanging from the cable conduit fully five metres above her, and her heart lurched.


‘Ralph?’ she cried.


 


Dangling from the steel rafters, his heart in his mouth, Ralph had an aerial view of the carnage in the studio. He took in the scene in panicked glimpses: Tanky was loose, tussling with a scorpion, while two more threatened Niko and Mayeni. Robyn was on the video desk, with a scorpion trying to climb up and attack her, while their dad was dragging a TV camera away, pursued by another of the predasaurs.


Ralph had finally found his way back from the cabling master board, to discover the ladder had gone. The only way to get down was to drop.


Desperately he swung himself back and forth from the conduit casing to build some momentum, then he tucked his chin into his chest and let go. There was a second of freefall, and he heard Robyn shout his name. Then he hit the floor. Ralph bent his knees to absorb the impact and rolled over to try and distribute its force through his body. Pain shattered through him, as if his bones were broken and knifing him from the inside. He rolled over until he came up hard against the wall, panting for breath, and gingerly flexed his arms and legs.


When he saw a scorpion scuttling straight for him, he moved a lot faster.


On instinct, he reached up and wrestled a fire extinguisher free from its housing. As the nightmare bore down on him, he pulled out the pin and hit the lever. Icy spray spat out hungrily, engulfing the giant scorpion. It stopped in its tracks, pincers poised to scissor his wrists. He sprayed it again and kicked it backwards; it didn’t fight back.


‘Brilliant, Ralph.’ His dad was beside him in moments, pulling the canister away from him. ‘Carbon dioxide displaces oxygen! Without that . . .’ He ran to Niko and blasted the scorpion attacking her with the extinguisher, and it too jerked to a stop.


‘Dad!’ Robyn shouted.


Dazed, Ralph looked over and saw that Tanky had finally dealt with the scorpion scrabbling at his side, grinding it to a wet black pulp against the scene dock’s closed shutters. Now the woolly rhino lowered his head at Roland, Niko and Mayeni.


And he charged.


OceanofPDF.com













28


Without hesitation, Robyn leaped from the desk, sailing over the scorpion that menaced her. She primed the lighter and ran to the twitching creature. Gerhard had said earlier that there were neural relays still implanted in Tanky’s brain even though his chip had been removed, and that they would still respond to a nearby control chip. This scorpion must be acting as some sort of relay, allowing Gerhard to push Tanky to attack.


With deep, instinctive loathing she blasted a wave of intense flame into it. The scorpion didn’t even react as the fire consumed it.


But Tanky did. As the relay was destroyed he gave an agonised bellow; his head jerked back mid‑charge and his body went rigid. Robyn felt sick when the rhino suddenly fell heavily onto his flank, crushing the smouldering remains of a scorpion beneath him.


Robyn ran to him and fell to her knees beside him. ‘He’s hardly breathing!’ she shouted, distraught. ‘What can we do?’


‘Without specialist help . . .’ Roland staggered over to the last scorpion standing, beside the video desk. It moved towards him with a menacing swish of its tail until he unleashed another torrent of glittering CO
2
 spray all over it. Then he brought the canister down on the monster’s head, once – twice – three times, before turning his back on its feebly twitching remains. The extinguisher slipped from his red, raw hands and with a groan, Roland sat down heavily.


‘Dad!’ Ralph shouted, trying to rise, but one leg buckled as he did so.


‘Benni?’ Mayeni had propped herself up on one elbow and was looking around, her cheeks flushed, eyes glassy. ‘You’ve made a hella mess of my studio,’ she said. She stared at Ralph, then back at Roland. ‘He did it. He 
did
 . . .’ Her head fell back.


‘Oh, God, I think she’s been stung.’ Niko started to scrabble for the first‑aid kit on her combat vest. ‘She needs an adrenaline shot. Intramuscular. And your dad needs his hands treated.’


‘I’m on it,’ Ralph said, limping over, opening his own medical kit.


But Robyn knew there was nothing in her kit that could help Tanky. With both hands on his flank, feeling how shallow his breathing was, she looked around at the smoking, smouldering studio. They’d survived, just. But their enemies were gathered all around.


And it was almost two o’clock. Could they hold out? Was there anything left to hold out for?


A sudden, urgent thrum broke through the smoky air – a telephone, buzzing on silent, somewhere in the studio.


What now?
 she thought.


 


Grant held the phone tightly to his ear, praying no one came looking for the unconscious Dorries. 
Pick up, Robyn
, he thought, closing his eyes. 
Pick up and tell me what’s going –! 


‘Mbato’s walking away,’ his dad hissed. ‘With Zuma. And Gerhard.’


Luke looked excited, huddled on the back seat like a kid up late shrinking into bed when they hear their parents’ feet on the stairs.


‘They’ve given up?’


‘I doubt it,’ breathed Mr van Rok. ‘They’re heading for that big truck.’


‘We can’t afford to take the chance,’ Mbato was saying. ‘The Ballantynes are still alive and at least one camera probably intact. I won’t let them make that broadcast.’


‘Sir,’ said Zuma, ‘there’s at least one hostage in there. Please, we need to be careful. Whatever those scorpion things were, they failed –’


‘You unimaginative drone,’ Gerhard sneered. ‘You talk to me of failure, after your tactics left me for dead in a cage?’


‘I wasn’t talking to you at all, Mr Gerhard,’ Zuma said stiffly, before turning back to Mbato.


Feel the burn
, thought Grant.


‘Sir, if I can get two men inside with tear gas, we can secure the studio and –’


‘There’s no time,’ Mbato said. ‘You heard they’re planning to broadcast at two. I’m authorising the use of the EMP.’


‘Sir,’ Zuma protested. ‘The damage to the city’s infrastructure . . . there’s a hospital just a few blocks from here –’


‘Activate, Captain Zuma,’ Mbato snapped. ‘That is a direct order.’


The click in Grant’s ear as the phone was answered sounded like a gunshot. Robyn’s voice broke in. ‘Who is this?’


‘Me,’ Grant whispered. He felt a wave of relief to hear her voice, but shushed her and held the phone to the window. ‘Wait.’


‘Sir, procedure states that ahead of using an EMP we must give due warning to the legislature that power throughput will be affected –’


‘I 
am
 the legislature!’ Mbato boomed, shutting down her protests. ‘Now, carry out my instructions, Zuma, or I’ll replace you with someone who will.’


Hiding in the people carrier, Grant heard the thud of Zuma’s boots on the concrete as she marched away. ‘It’s all going on here,’ Robyn said quietly. ‘Grant, listen –’


‘Sorry, Rob,’ Grant said. ‘You need to hear this.’


‘Zuma is showing unwelcome independence,’ Mbato said. ‘As are you, Gerhard, just when you can least afford to. Your predasaurs failed and risked our plans being exposed. Only a fool would believe that Ballantyne released “his” scorpions by accident, and perished as a result.’


‘People believe what they are told,’ Gerhard retorted. ‘For instance, I suppose I must once have told you that I value your opinion.’


‘Don’t, Gerhard,’ Mbato said warningly. ‘If I didn’t still need you, I’d . . .’ He opened a door to his limousine. ‘Without me in power, good luck getting approval for your sick little projects.’


‘Just get in your car, Julius,’ Gerhard said acidly, ‘before that pulse triggers –’


‘Oh my God,’ Robyn said on the phone. ‘Where are you, just outside?’


‘Yeah,’ Grant said, ‘and it sounds like Zuma is on the outside too.’


‘Is she still going to fire that EMP thing?’ Robyn said.


‘I don’t think she wants to,’ Grant said helplessly. ‘But she’s a soldier. And when the order comes straight from the president . . .’


‘But the effect it will have on everything! All electrics, all comms, all power . . .’


‘Why are they hiding in a limo?’ Luke said. ‘How’s that going to protect them?’


‘The president’s car is built like a military vehicle,’ Mr van Rok explained. ‘Radiation‑hardened chips run the electronics. It’s got metallised windows and well‑fitted doors, which turn the body of the car into a Faraday cage that ought to protect against the EMP –’


‘This is no time for a science lesson,’ Robyn said in Grant’s ear. ‘Hold tight, Grant. We’re alive, barely. I think we’re going to try to come out –’


‘They’ll kill you,’ Grant said. ‘There’s one thing I can try here. Bye, Rob . . .’


‘What do you mean?’ she said. ‘What are you doing?’


‘I just wanted to say . . . well . . .’


‘Yes. I’m saying it too. But listen to me, don’t do –’


‘Gotta go.’ Grant passed the phone to his dad then grabbed Dorries’ rifle. He felt the tiny hairs on the back of his neck standing up.


‘What are you doing, bruh?’ Luke said.


Grant opened the door of the people carrier and rolled out. Mbato’s limo was parked just across the car park. No soldiers were looking his way; presumably they were occupied with readying the EMP device. He crawled across the concrete, took a deep breath and then reached up and yanked open the rear door. Mbato and Gerhard started and swung around, as did the chauffeur in the driver’s seat.


Grant jabbed the rifle inside.


‘Don’t move!’ he hissed.


 


Under the bright studio lights, in the eerie, smoky calm of the aftermath of their struggle, Ralph wrapped the end of the gauze bandage around his father’s injured hand. He looked over at Robyn as she lowered the phone.


‘What is it?’ he demanded. ‘Rob?’


‘The EMP,’ Robyn said, ‘it’s coming.’


‘Mayeni,’ Roland said, but she gave no reply; Niko was still watching over her. ‘Is she all right?’


She looked dead. But Niko was massaging her palm and checking for a pulse in her neck. ‘If there’s no response in another minute, I’m giving her another dose of adrenaline.’


‘Rob, are Grant and the others OK?’ asked Roland.


‘For now, I think,’ she said.


‘And Niko,’ he went on, ‘is Mayeni’s phone all right?’


Niko pulled it from the woman’s shirt pocket. ‘There are about a thousand missed calls and messages from Benni.’


‘Ralph, get it,’ said Roland, holding up his bandaged hands by way of explanation. ‘There must be a kitchen here. We need to find a microwave.’


Ralph limped painfully over to Niko to grab the phone. ‘It won’t taste any better cooked.’


‘A microwave acts like a Faraday cage,’ Roland said. ‘It keeps the microwaves inside it to protect the people using it. So it follows they should give some protection to any device kept inside.’


‘Think the kitchen’s on the other side of reception,’ said Robyn.


‘We should protect the camera too,’ Ralph argued. ‘Will it fit –’


‘It doesn’t matter what happens to that now,’ said Roland.


‘But you risked your life to protect it,’ said Robyn, looking puzzled, wiping at her eyes as Ralph brought their dad Mayeni’s phone. ‘We 
all
 risked our lives. And the broadcast is meant to happen at two –’


Mayeni’s phone buzzed.


Ralph looked at the name and the photo on screen. ‘Benni,’ he said simply.


‘Don’t answer that. Get that phone into the microwave and close the door – fast,’ Roland said, looking at the phone screen. ‘And keep everything crossed. Everything.’


OceanofPDF.com













29


Grant couldn’t believe he had Mbato literally in his sights. One squeeze of the trigger and he could take revenge on the president for the murder of Dane Mellanby . . . for the deaths of everyone else on the president’s sick hunts . . . and by taking out Gerhard he’d eliminate the architect of the virus as well as the creator of the predasaurs.


And then my life is wrecked for ever
, he thought, his grip on the gun wavering.


‘Close the door, damn it!’ Gerhard shouted. He lunged for the door handle. Grant thrust the gun into his face.


And then the truck behind him shook with a sudden, invisible impact.


The EMP
, he thought. 
It’s happened. I was too late to stop it
. ‘What the hell . . . ?’ Zuma’s voice was loud behind him.


Grant spun around to face her while keeping the muzzle of his automatic weapon pointed inside the limousine. ‘Stay back. Guns down. Or I kill the president and his sick friend.’


‘Don’t be an idiot, kid,’ Zuma said. ‘You’re not going to kill anyone –’


‘This thing is gas‑operated, not electronic!’ shouted Grant, raising the gun in the air. ‘There’s nothing for the EMP to fry.’ He let off a few rounds, the clatter of the bullets the only sound in the otherwise eerie silence. ‘Do as I say.’


‘Zuma!’ roared Mbato.


‘You are a fool, Julius,’ Gerhard snapped.


‘Shut up,’ Grant told them. ‘I repeat, everyone, put down your guns. Else I’ll start shooting for real.’


The gathered troops looked at Zuma for guidance. She nodded curtly. Slowly, the soldiers laid their guns down on the concrete.


‘There are snipers on the studio roof, Grant,’ Zuma called to him. ‘Threat to the president? Not tolerated. They’re lining you up in their sights, ready to take the shot, make the kill.’


‘Then call them off,’ Grant said.


‘Like, now,’ Luke added, as he and his father got out of the car.


Grant nodded to the motorhome beside them in the car park, still sitting with its back doors open. Wet straw spilled out of it. ‘Check in there for weapons,’ he told Luke. ‘Knowing Roland . . .’


‘On it,’ said Luke, and he ran inside.


‘We want transport out of here, Mr President,’ Mr van Rok said. ‘A military vehicle with rad‑hard electronics to withstand the effects of the pulse.’


‘The Ballantynes will be coming with us,’ said Max Khumalo. ‘Shame on you for everything you’ve done to them.’ He crossed to Grant and held his hands out to take the gun. ‘Let me handle this pair, son. I can’t let you –’


‘You can’t be seen to do anything like this,’ Grant reminded him, ‘and everyone knows it.’


‘But –’


‘It’s a nice gesture on your part, Dad, trying to look out for me.’ Grant gave him the smallest smile. ‘I’m trying to do the same. You know?’


His father smiled sadly. ‘So I see.’


Zuma had taken a few stealthy steps closer.


‘That’s enough,’ Grant shouted.


‘Yeah, you better stay back, bruh!’ Luke had emerged, an AK‑47 in each hand and wearing two fifty‑round belts. He gave one of each to his dad, who looked at them doubtfully. ‘Those two douchebags have put me and my friends through hell. Don’t give me an excuse to get revenge on them.’


‘We don’t want violence,’ said Max, his voice strong and oratorial as always. ‘Simply safe passage out of here.’


‘Reports suggest the EMP has taken out all electronics systems within two square miles of here,’ Zuma said. ‘A massive military presence will be pouring in to provide aid and generators and keep the peace. There’ll be roadblocks. More checkpoints.’


‘You wouldn’t get half a mile,’ Gerhard added. ‘There’s only one way this can end.’


Grant’s mind was racing. How do we get out of this?


The shutters on the front of the studio cranked up, slowly and manually. Grant saw Zuma and her troops looking down at their weapons as though trying to summon them to hand with willpower alone.


‘We’re coming out,’ Ralph shouted from inside. ‘We’re not armed.’


‘We need medical help,’ Niko said hoarsely.


‘First, bring Mbato and Gerhard here,’ Robyn added. ‘We want to see them. Face to face.’


Grant noticed Zuma looking past him at either Gerhard or Mbato inside the limo and nodding a fraction. ‘Don’t try anything,’ he warned her, then turned back to his real enemies. ‘Get out of the car and walk towards the studio. Slowly.’


They did so: Mbato stiffly and carefully, Gerhard slinking along behind.


The whirr of helicopters stole into the sky: aid and airlifting under way, Grant supposed.


The doors to the darkened reception area opened slowly. Roland came out first, ducking under the half‑closed shutters, holding his bandaged hands in the air. Ralph followed just behind, limping badly. Grant saw Niko come out next, pushing a woman in a wheelchair who was slumped forward – dead or unconscious, he couldn’t tell. Finally, Robyn came out, a phone clutched in her hand. Her expression showed a mix of emotions. He saw fear and sadness, the snail‑trail of tears, but something more: strength, deep and warm, in the small smile that teased her lips.


‘You guys look like hell,’ Luke murmured.


Ralph nodded. ‘Been there, got the T‑shirt.’


‘So, what now, Ballantyne?’ Mbato said gruffly, holding himself tall. ‘You want to kill me? Do that and your life, and your children’s lives, are over.’


‘They won’t kill us,’ Gerhard told him. ‘You served with Ballantyne, for God’s sake. His kind believe in infantile concepts like “good” and “justice”.’


‘Perhaps we’re not alone in that,’ Roland said, eyeing the helicopter in the sky.


Grant saw now that it wasn’t a relief helicopter. It carried a news crew. A second helicopter had appeared, buzzing overhead, with a cameraman balanced on the skids.


‘How are they here?’ Mbato said, staring up at the sky. ‘We had a news blackout. The EMP took out the broadcast.’


‘Here at the studio, yes,’ Roland said.


‘But our friend Benni took the OB van,’ Ralph broke in. ‘It can receive broadcasts from here and transmit its own.’


‘And he must have driven out of range of the EMP,’ Robyn added, her face flushed. ‘Because at two o’clock, right on time, Jacaranda TV made its broadcast from the OB van!’


Grant couldn’t yet grasp the bigger picture, but felt hope start to stir inside. ‘The CCTV footage went out?’


‘Fake news,’ said Mbato flatly.


‘Yeah. You could maybe brush that off.’ Robyn held up a phone that Grant didn’t recognise. ‘But Dad and me did a little rewiring in there. And Ralph patched in a new fibre‑optic cable to the master board thing that transmits sound and pictures from this studio.’


Roland smiled. ‘That cable carried the signal from the security camera pointing down at you as you talked to us outside the building.’


‘As you boasted,’ Ralph said, defiant, looking from Mbato to Gerhard. ‘As you gloated and threatened us and shared your oh‑so‑clever plans . . .’


‘Tut, tut.’ Robyn’s smile was cold. ‘Looks like 
you
 missed the bigger picture.’


Gerhard clenched his fists. ‘You’re lying.’


‘You’re 
finished
.’ Robyn stalked forward and held up the phone to them.


Even from a distance Grant could see and hear the footage of Mbato and Gerhard talking into the intercom. 
Zuma can see that too
, he thought.


‘Benni only sent us an extract,’ Roland went on, ‘but thanks to Ralph’s speed at connecting the cable, most of our conversation was recorded.’


‘And put out nationally,’ Niko said. ‘He linked it all together himself, urging the authorities to act . . .’


‘And get down here to see for themselves.’ Ralph waved to a third and fourth helicopter joining the others in the sky. In the distance, there was the wail of sirens.


The woman in the wheelchair stirred. ‘One helluva story,’ she muttered.


Zuma had turned to her silent troops. They were watching her intently, and Grant felt a prickle of anticipation. 
What does this mean?


‘What these news crews see,’ Mbato said, ‘is their president being held at gunpoint by terrorist extremists led by Max Khumalo.’


‘No,’ said Zuma, stepping forward smartly. ‘I believe they see two traitors working to undermine decency and democracy in this country.’ She trained her gun on Mbato and Gerhard. ‘And so do I.’


Grant swapped a speechless look with Robyn and Ralph, and saw they were all thinking the same thing: 
What?


‘Disobedience to orders, Zuma?’ Mbato breathed. ‘Your career just ended.’


‘My career ended when I complied with your unlawful orders, sir,’ Zuma said curtly. ‘I have no choice now but to –’


Suddenly, Gerhard shoved Mbato violently from behind. Mbato fell against Roland, who with a soldier’s instincts kicked Mbato’s legs from under him and forced him flat to the ground as Zuma covered him with the gun. But Robyn’s instinct had been to dodge aside – and Gerhard snatched her wrist. She shouted in surprise and anger. Grant saw a small pistol in Gerhard’s other hand; he must have pulled it from inside his jacket.


There was no time to react. In a heartbeat, Gerhard held Robyn in a neck lock, the pistol pressed against the back of her head.


OceanofPDF.com













30


Robyn struggled in Gerhard’s grip, but stopped when she felt the cold, hard muzzle scrape against the back of her neck.


‘It’s been said once today already,’ Gerhard said, ‘but I’d thank you all to lower your guns.’ Using Robyn as a human shield, he backed away towards the cover of the studio. ‘Please. No one try to play hero. It won’t end well.’


How could I have been so stupid?
 Robyn thought miserably as Grant and Luke lowered their rifles and Mr van Rok did the same. 
We’d won! The tables were turned; the bad guys caught bang to rights. This was meant to be a happy ending
.


‘I’m leaving,’ Gerhard went on. ‘And I’m taking the girl with me. If anyone tries to stop me, I’ll kill her.’


Roland, one knee pinning Mbato to the ground, looked up, his hair blowing in the rotor wash of the hovering helicopters. ‘You’re many things, Gerhard, but you’re not a fool,’ he said. ‘You know the EMP fried every electronic device in the area. Short of flagging down one of those copters, where can you go?’


‘Oh, wait a moment, I’ll draw you a map,’ said Gerhard, jamming the gun harder against Robyn’s neck. ‘I can draw it in your daughter’s blood if you wish –’


There was a low growl from the studio. Robyn turned her head a fraction and swivelled her eyeballs almost into her skull to get a glimpse of the source.


Tanky stood, trembling, his head bowed, his eyes pink and dull. He snorted, and thick wet mucus bubbled out.


Niko reacted first to the woolly rhino’s arrival; she quickly wheeled Mayeni clear, while Ralph crossed to stand beside their father. Grant and Luke each stood closer to theirs. They knew the power of the young rhino, even in his weakened state. Zuma and the soldiers just stared at this impossible beast, breathing hard in the doorway.


‘Perfect,’ breathed Gerhard. ‘My predasaur will create a distraction while we get clear.’


Robyn saw Tanky lower his head. ‘He’s going to charge!’


‘It can’t hurt me,’ Gerhard gloated.


‘He’s got a data chip inside him,’ Ralph explained. ‘Stops any predasaur from getting too close.’


‘Except,’ said Grant, ‘the door to the limo was open when the EMP went off.’


‘I was still protected,’ Gerhard said. But Robyn thought she heard the slightest hint of doubt slide into his voice, a subtle harmonic that was the sweetest music to her.


Tanky growled louder.


‘You’re hurting the one person who showed love for that poor animal,’ said Grant.


Robyn nodded. ‘And you don’t control him any more!’ As she spoke, she elbowed Gerhard in the stomach with all her strength.


He fell backwards – and the gun fired.


Robyn winced, her ears ringing with the sound of the retort. In a second, Ralph had run to catch her, to pull her away.


And the gunshot, to Tanky, was like a starter’s pistol. He bolted forward, charging at Gerhard. Gerhard stood his ground. He fired off two rounds before, his eyes bulging, he realised there was no stopping the thing he’d created. He turned and started to run.


Head down, Tanky butted Gerhard in the back. Gerhard was slammed up against an old station wagon, and the rhino’s stump of a horn skewered his spine. A crimson stain spread through his expensive suit as Gerhard twitched and struggled. Then the woolly rhino sank slowly to the ground, blood oozing from the bullet wounds in its hump, and took Gerhard with it.


Robyn ran forward to comfort Tanky, and Ralph did the same to comfort her. Gerhard turned his head to the side, eyeing them.


‘After all I’ve done . . . all I planned . . .’ He laughed. ‘Killed . . . by a juvenile?’


‘One of us was always gonna get you,’ Ralph said.


‘Get me?’ Gerhard sneered, as blood dribbled over his chin. ‘My team can bring a creature two hundred million years old back from the dead. How hard d’you think it will be . . . to resurrect . . . a genius . . . like me?’


His eyes flickered shut.


Robyn heard Grant come up behind her. ‘He’s dead,’ she said quietly. ‘Tanky?’


‘That vet,’ Luke said suddenly, turning to Zuma. ‘Where’s that vet? We need him!’


 


Ralph couldn’t stop staring at Gerhard’s bloodied back. He’d dreamed of Gerhard dying in the most horrible ways, but now he was dead, Ralph didn’t feel anything except anger. Anger and bitterness at the scars he and his friends and family would carry for ever.


Suddenly Roland yelled. Mbato must have been biding his time, for he had rolled over and shaken Roland free; he had fallen onto the concrete. And Mbato was already up and sprinting away.


The world seemed to slow. Ralph ran to the assault rifle Grant had left on the ground. Fell to one knee. Picked up the weapon. His hand came under and charged it. One eye closed as he aimed and fired.


The rattle of bullets beneath the rotor wash.


Mbato went down hard on the concrete.


The heel of his shoe had been shot to scraps of rubber.


His dad’s bandaged hand hovered over Ralph’s shoulder. ‘Fine shooting.’


‘He can’t clear our names beyond any doubt if he’s dead,’ said Ralph. ‘Can he?’


Zuma ran to Mbato and caught him just as he tried to rise. ‘Stay down,’ she shouted.


‘I’ll see you court‑martialled for this, Zuma,’ Mbato spat.


‘I don’t think so,’ she said. ‘Sir.’


Ralph followed his father over to them. By now, Zuma’s troops had recovered their weapons and had them trained on the Ballantynes. Ralph hesitated.


‘Stand down,’ Zuma ordered her men.


Roland closed the distance between them. ‘Captain Zuma,’ he said, surveying the soldier.


She’s the one who killed Xai
, Ralph wanted to say, as if his father didn’t know. 
She did it
.


Zuma met Roland’s stare. ‘It’s over,’ she said.


Roland looked down at Mbato, then back at her. ‘Over? Not quite,’ he said. ‘Ralph. In my shirt pocket, could you . . . ?’


Ralph reached in. He pulled out Xai’s lighter.


‘I think you should take this,’ Roland told Zuma. ‘And buy yourself a good cigar.’


 


Robyn knelt beside Tanky, Grant’s arm around her. The vet had done all he could, but Tanky could not be saved any more than Gerhard could.


When the rhino’s tortured eyes had gazed up at Robyn for the final time, their redness had gone.


They’d turned black.


He had finally found peace.


OceanofPDF.com













EPILOGUE


Five months later


In his bedroom at Crocodile Lodge, Ralph stared down at the old, leather‑bound book on his desk. The life story of the Ballantyne family over the centuries, written by its greatest and most notorious adventurists.


The last words inked on the faded paper had been penned by his father, fifteen years ago, describing his time in the South Africa Recces.


‘The next chapter,’ Roland had suggested, ‘should be written by you . . . little rogue.’


But the pages, even the blank ones, seemed to him as rich as they were old. Alive and almost bursting with the stories they contained. As for his own . . .


Even now, Ralph felt like he was still processing what had happened.


He looked out of his window over the dark forest, where animals whispered and chittered beneath the moonlight. Here, on the eve of Xai’s memorial celebration, which would be held here at the Lodge, in the land he’d given so much of his life to, the story felt almost too big to pin down in words.


And it wasn’t just his story. He thought of everyone who would soon be gathering here. They all had their contribution to make.


Xai’s funeral had been a quiet, socially distanced affair, but Roland had insisted that they hold a proper memorial after the pandemic, when people could honour Nqosa Xai fully and in person without distancing.


Young Moth and Senosi were attending on behalf of the Bakho doctors who’d worked with Niko’s team. Once Gerhard’s company had been seized by the state during the investigation into Mbato and stripped of all its assets, they’d found a great deal of scientific research that proved vital in helping to perfect a vaccine and a range of treatments for the virus, saving the lives of so many people and offering hope that it would eventually be eradicated.


Max Khumalo would be attending too – the country’s new president, Ralph reflected. After the full scale of Mbato’s misdeeds in office became known, Khumalo’s Green Freedom Party won the general election with a landslide. And one of Khumalo’s first acts had been to assure Senosi that he would pass a law permitting indigenous peoples to reclaim lands seized by the state, where they could live in safety for perpetuity.


Ralph smiled. 
Just as well Khumalo did that
, he thought. Moth was a damn good shot with a catapult, and it wouldn’t do to have the president sparked out in the canapés tomorrow with a lump on the back of his head.


Of course, Grant Khumalo was coming too, but he was hardly a stranger to Crocodile Lodge these days. He and Robyn tried to protest that they were ‘just good friends’, but Ralph saw the way they looked at each other. He sensed that Roland’s nose was a little out of joint, now that Robyn turned more to Grant than to him for advice and guidance, but this change seemed to have created space for Roland’s relationship with Niko to deepen. Who knew? Perhaps a wedding might follow the memorial service . . .


Mum would’ve been pleased
, Ralph thought, 
that Robyn and Niko get on so much better now
. His reflective mood darkened a little. 
And that Mbato will rot in prison for the rest of his miserable life
.


After a huge trial, which had become a media circus, the disgraced former president was settling into his new home: Pollsmoor Maximum Security Prison, where South Africa’s most dangerous criminals were held. The newly vaccinated crowds poured into the streets to celebrate as he was given consecutive life sentences for kidnap, murder and corruption, along with his trusted confidants who’d helped push through the sale of the Kruger National Park to Gerhard; they’d known what was going on and had shared in the blood‑tainted spoils. The new government had overturned the sale of the park, returning it to state control. Gerhard’s old facility, the site of so much horror and suffering, was to become a carefully managed private sanctuary for the remaining predasaurs: a place where veterinary doctors, specialists and indigenous people would work to heal the creatures and – eventually, perhaps – help manage their introduction to the African biosphere. Robyn’s skill in connecting with animals had led to the team asking her to stay involved with their rehabilitation project as it progressed. Indeed, Max Khumalo had insisted that Roland, Ralph and Robyn be present for the opening celebrations.


Ralph hadn’t gone, though. The memory of losing Xai there was too fresh in his memory. But he was delighted when Robyn had texted to say that Max Khumalo was naming the place the Tanky Reborn Wildlife Reserve. It felt like a fitting tribute.


Staring into space, Ralph thought of the other guests who would be joining them the next day. Many of Xai’s friends and former comrades would be there to send off the little rogue, including Frederick Yonker, who’d fought titanoboas and poachers alongside them in the Lebombo Mountains.


Even Captain Zuma was coming to honour Xai and all those who’d fallen in the conflict their former president had brought about. She and some of her troops had testified against Mbato, telling how and when they had realised that his orders were unlawful – and she had been honoured for her bravery in standing up against him. She was a principled and honourable soldier.


The Ballantynes had met privately with Zuma and a mediator to discuss Xai’s death, at Zuma’s request. It was one of the hardest things Ralph had ever done. They talked about what each of them had thought was true at the time, and Zuma had offered a heartfelt acknowledgement of the grief and loss her actions had caused. It hadn’t eased Ralph’s pain, but at least it had brought him some resolution. Some peace. He believed it might have done the same for Robyn and his dad too.


Ralph wasn’t looking forward to tomorrow’s solemn speeches, but he was glad that Luke would be there beside him to lighten the mood, and in his new capacity as tech wizard, assistant director and sometimes tea boy at Jacaranda TV. Benni and Mayeni were coming along too: even though they’d never met Xai, they wanted to pay their respects. They planned to roll up in the OB van that had saved the lives of Xai’s friends and changed the course of national history.


‘That van deserves its own series,’ Luke had quipped on a group call to discuss covering the event. ‘I’m telling you, Benni, the idea is gold.’


Benni had just laughed. ‘Well, when Mayeni seconds me to work with her new bosses at News 24, you can direct it yourself. You might just be keeping Jacaranda TV alive single‑handed.’


Luke could do it too
, Ralph thought. Certainly, Karl van Rok was pleased that his son had finally found something he loved doing, and had made a substantial donation to get the studio up and running again. And with Grant considering pursuing a career in news journalism now – policing the people in power – Jacaranda TV could turn out to be a training ground for a lot of new talent.


And what about me?
 Ralph thought, flicking through the blank pages at the back of the old book. He’d thought he’d stay with his dad for ever, conserving the wildlife at Crocodile Lodge, helping to mind it for generations to come. But the past months and the trials he’d endured had changed him.


There was so much to experience in this world, outside the confines set by childhood.


‘Life,’ Robyn had declared after Xai’s funeral, ‘is for living the hell out of while you can.’


And he knew she was right.


Living was the adventure, as big and wild as you chose to make it.


Ralph picked up a fountain pen, thinking of the ordeals he’d survived, and all that life still held in store for him.


We’re all adventurists
, he thought.


And he put his pen nib to the ancient paper and started to write.


OceanofPDF.com













Wilbur Smith
 is one of the most successful authors in the world, having sold over 130 million copies of his incredible adventure novels. Wilbur died in 2021, leaving behind him a treasure‑trove of stories that will delight readers for years to come.


Keith Chapman
 is a television writer and producer, best known as the creator of children’s television programmes 
Bob the Builder
 and 
PAW Patrol
. Keith originates from Norfolk and currently resides in Monaco.


 


Steve Cole
 is the best‑selling author of over 200 books. His work includes the 
Astrosaurs
 series, original fiction titles for 
Doctor Who
, the 
Young Bond
 series and 
Swarm Rising
 co‑authored with astronaut Tim Peake. Steve lives and works in Buckinghamshire.


 


For all the latest information about Wilbur, visit:


wilbursmithbooks.com


facebook.com/WilburSmith


wilbur-niso-smithfoundation.org


OceanofPDF.com













Wilbur Smith donates twenty per cent of profits received from the sale of this copy to The Wilbur & Niso Smith Foundation. The Foundation’s focus is to encourage adventure writing and literacy and find new talent.


 


For more information, please visit


wilbur-niso-smithfoundation.org


 




OceanofPDF.com















 


 


Thank you for choosing a Hot Key book!


For all the latest bookish news, freebies and exclusive content, sign up to the Hot Key newsletter – scan the QR code or visit 
lnk.to/HotKeyBooks




Follow us on social media:


 
 
 


bonnierbooks.co.uk/HotKeyBooks


OceanofPDF.com













First published in Great Britain in 2024 by


HOT KEY BOOKS


4th Floor, Victoria House, Bloomsbury Square


London WC1B 4DA


Owned by Bonnier Books


Sveavägen 56, Stockholm, Sweden


bonnierbooks.co.uk/HotKeyBooks


 


Copyright © Orion Mintaka (UK) Ltd, 2024


Coverartwork © Ramazan Kazaliev, 2024


 


All rights reserved.


No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher.


 


The right of Wilbur Smith and Ramazan Kazaliev to be identified as the author and illustrator of this work has been asserted by them in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.


 


This is a work of fiction. Names, places, events and incidents are either the products of the author’s imagination or used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.


 


A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.


 


ISBN: 978-1-4714-1298-1


 


Typeset by Envy Design Ltd


 


Hot Key Books is an imprint of Bonnier Books UK


www.bonnierbooks.co.uk


OceanofPDF.com



