













OceanofPDF.com



















Contents


Title Page


The PREY ZONE series


Dedication


Map


Prologue


Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4


Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7


Chapter 8


Chapter 9


Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12


Chapter 13


Chapter 14


Chapter 15


Chapter 16


Chapter 17


Chapter 18


Chapter 19


Chapter 20


Chapter 21


Chapter 22


Chapter 23


Chapter 24


Chapter 25


Chapter 26


Chapter 27


Chapter 28


Chapter 29


Chapter 30


Epilogue


Author Bios


The Wilbur & Niso Smith Foundation


Copyright


THE PREY ZONE SERIES


 
Prey Zone


 
The Serpent’s Lair


Look out for more! 


 
I dedicate this book to the adventurous young souls of today and
 
tomorrow, who will fight for the wild spaces of the world. 


 
Wilbur Smith






PROLOGUE


No noise-cancelling headphones in the world could drown out the sound of the  woman  across  the  aisle  coughing  up  her  lungs.  Her  hacking  coughs were getting worse and more persistent. 


Ravi sighed, turned up his music, and looked out of the aircraft window, staring  out  across  an  endless  blanket  of  cloud.  Flying  business  class  from South Africa to the UK had been sold to him as a big treat, a kind of bribe from  his  mum  to  show  that  emigrating  wasn’t  all  bad,  but  somehow  he’d landed the worst seat on the plane. Typical. 


 
Like one fancy flight could make up for losing everything I know, anyway
, Ravi thought sourly.  
Just so Mum can spend all day in an office in London
 
instead of at home in Pretoria
. 


Then a message popped up on the in-flight entertainment screen in front of him. 


 
People aren’t supposed to get sick in business class! :p
 
Want to swap seats? 


He  shifted  in  his  seat  to  look  up  the  aisle.  Five  rows  ahead,  Mum  was giving him a little wave. She must be feeling guilty to make the offer. But Ravi  wasn’t  ready  to  let  her  off  the  hook.  He  shook  his  head  and  turned back to the window. 


A  fresh  bout  of  wet,  revolting  coughing  came  from  the  woman.  The attendant come over and stood beside her. 


‘Mrs Tate,’ he said. ‘May I get you another drink of water?’


‘Yes,  please,’  the  woman  wheezed.  ‘I’m  so  sorry.  I  saw  my  doctor  in Pretoria and he told me something new was going around …’


‘Drink it up, Mrs Tate,’ the attendant said as he handed her a bottle. 


‘Oh, please, do call me Rosalind.’


‘When you’ve finished the water, may I ask you to wear this face mask?’


the  attendant  went  on  smoothly.  ‘Is  that  OK?  For  the  comfort  of  other passengers, you understand?’


‘Yes,  of  course.’  Mrs  Tate  took  a  few  sips  of  the  drink,  then  placed  the mask over her mouth and nose with trembling hands. ‘I’m so sorry to put you out.’


When  the  attendant  moved  aside,  Ravi  saw  that,  even  with  the  mask covering most of her face, Rosalind Tate looked pale and clammy, with red veins threading through the whites of her eyes. She tried to smile at Ravi from behind the mask, but another coughing fit made her double over. 


Ravi  looked  away,  turned  his  music  louder  still.  He’d  seen  some  stuff online  about  this  new  mystery  bug  going  around.  
Chill
,  he  told  himself. 


 
Mum had Covid twice and you didn’t get it. 
 Besides, six hours had already passed;  there  were  only  five  more  to  go  till  the  plane  touched  down  in London. He saw that Mum had messaged again:


 
That coughing is gross! Just our luck if we catch whatever
 
she’s got! 


 
You’re such a try-hard, Mum
, thought Ravi, and typed back: 
I hope it’s fatal. 


Then he pressed send, switched off the screen and closed his eyes. 


Somehow  Ravi  managed  to  fall  asleep.  He  was  only  woken  by  the attendant telling him to fasten his seat belt for landing. Mrs Tate was still there, hunched under a fancy business class quilt, her seat belt fastened over it. She wasn’t coughing any more, although she wheezed with every rapid breath. 


With  nothing  better  to  do,  Ravi  kept  an  eye  on  her.  The  poor  woman barely stirred through the aircraft’s final descent. The landing was smooth, and once the plane was down, the attendant came straight over to Mrs Tate’s seat and placed a gentle hand on her shoulder. 


‘Hello,  Mrs  Tate,  we’re  safely  down,’  he  said.  ‘Just  to  confirm,  we’ve arranged a fast-track through customs so you can get on with your trip as soon as …’


His voice trailed away as Mrs Tate jerked in her seat as if she was having some kind of seizure. She coughed, and it sounded like her lungs were full of splinters. The attendant signalled frantically to a colleague further up the aisle for help. 


Too late. 


Mrs Tate’s head lolled to one side. For a few seconds, she gazed at Ravi with bulging, bloodshot eyes. A crimson trickle ran from each side of her mouth. 


Ravi jerked backwards in disgust.  
It was just a bug
, he thought helplessly. 


 
A stupid cough …


As  the  cabin  erupted  in  noisy  alarm  and  Ravi’s  mum  came  scurrying  to help her son, Rosalind Tate sat watching the scene through bloody, sightless eyes. She was quite dead. 




1


 
Another slow and red-raw day, 
 thought Robyn Ballantyne. The four-by-four lurched, and she was nearly sent flying from her seat for the sixth time in as many minutes. She couldn’t imagine ever feeling comfortable again. 


Dawn had thrown daggers of warm light through the night’s shadows. As their stolen jeep climbed over higher terrain, Robyn imagined the volcanic ridges of the Lebombo Mountains past the protective shroud of the mopane trees.  The  vehicle  moved  at  a  crawl,  nudging  through  the  thick undergrowth, the leaves like green butterflies crowding at the windows. 


Two nightmarish weeks. That was how long she’d been cooped up in this battered,  overcrowded  transport,  moving  at  this  painful  pace  through  the rugged  bushveld,  trying  to  find  safety.  Unseasonal  downpours  had  caused landslides  all  across  the  region,  making  the  likeliest  trails  all  but impassable.  They  had  travelled  by  night  where  possible,  sticking  to  the toughest ground in the hope their enemies would look elsewhere. 


But  when  your  enemies  were  a  millionaire  psychopath  and  the  corrupt president of your country – with all the resources their wealth and standing could buy – could any plan stand a chance of success? 


‘We  escaped  Gerhard’s  compound.  Got  evidence  of  what’s  been  going down. We’ve survived so much,’ Robyn said to no one in particular. ‘This was meant to be freedom.’


‘I know,’ her brother Ralph murmured beside her. ‘Feels more like we’re prisoners than ever.’


The  time  before  the  two  of  them  had  found  the  tracks  of  something monstrous on the banks of their home, the Crocodile Lodge Game Reserve, seemed  like  a  different  life  entirely.  Some  impossible  beast  was  tearing apart  the  proud,  majestic  animals  Robyn  loved  so  dearly.  Looking  for answers,  they’d  gone  to  the  neighbouring  wildlife  reserve  of  super-rich technology  developer  Josef  Gerhard  –  and  there  they  had  found  more danger and horror than they could ever have imagined. For Gerhard had a high-tech lab, and there he had combined DNA from apex predators in his reserve  with  the  DNA  of  prehistoric  beasts  to  create  living  monsters  that could have come from his video game  
Predasaur
. They were the ultimate big  game,  and  they  would  make  the  ultimate  trophies  for  hunters  rich enough to afford it. And the ultimate way for Gerhard’s ally – and president of South Africa – Julius Mbato to dispose of his political opponents in the most gruesome ways imaginable. 


But  in  bringing  ancient  beasts  back  to  life,  Gerhard’s  sick  research  had managed  to  drag  something  still  worse  into  the  public  domain:  a  deadly zoonotic virus that had crossed from predasaur to human. It might already be tearing through the world’s population; Robyn and Ralph had no way of knowing for sure. 


After their showdown with Gerhard and Mbato two weeks ago, they’d fled into the wild, knowing they couldn’t return home for fear of who would be waiting for them there. Nor could they head straight to the nearest city with their  evidence  –  spies  would  be  watching  for  them  everywhere.  Gerhard and Mbato were hunting down the desperate group to save themselves, so the Ballantynes and their friends were cut off from all communications and were in hiding. 


They needed allies. 


‘Do you think we’ll ever find the San who live here?’ Robyn said. 


‘I  wonder  what  name  this  community  goes  by,’  said  Ralph.  ‘San’  was  a term  for  the  tribal  people  indigenous  to  South  Africa,  but  some  people found the word problematic, since it was often used to lump all the tribes together. Most indigenous peoples preferred to be named after the specific tribe they belonged to. But even Xai, their father’s best friend and former comrade  in  the  South  African  Special  Forces  –  who  was  descended  from


local  hunter  gatherers  –  didn’t  know  the  true  name  of  the  secretive community that had once inhabited these lands. 


Right now, Xai and Roland Ballantyne were leading their short convoy in a  bigger  truck  they’d  found  abandoned  near  Gerhard’s  perimeter  fence. 


They’d used it to smash through the fence, disabled all the communications and  GPS  location-finding  chips  in  the  vehicle,  and  were  now  cautiously scouting the land for signs of the tribe. 


‘It  makes  sense  to  turn  to  indigenous  peoples,’  Robyn  said,  looking  for reassurance. ‘They’d hate a land-grabber like Gerhard on principle. And the government’s treated them so badly, I’m sure they don’t like Mbato either.’


‘He’s probably driven them all away from here,’ Ralph said, and sighed. 


‘Well, look on the bright side. After all these adventures, we’re going to be filling a hell of a lot of blank pages in the  
Adventurists
 book!’


Robyn  nodded.  Before  this  nightmare  had  begun,  she  and  Ralph  had avidly  read  their  great-great-great-great-grandfather’s  memoir  of  his  wild life  at  the  frontiers  of  civilisation  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Zouga Ballantyne  had  been  called  an  ‘adventurist’  by  his  peers  because  they thought  he  was  reckless  and  irresponsible,  but  within  the  family  he’d become a legend of courage and resourcefulness. 


‘What would Zouga do now?’ Robyn pondered. 


‘Keep  fighting,’  Niko  Haart  insisted  from  the  driver’s  seat.  She  was Robyn’s  dad’s  partner  –  something  Robyn  still  found  icky,  though  their mum had died years ago. Niko had come to their rescue in Gerhard’s park, and nearly lost her own life while saving theirs. But since they’d broken out from  Gerhard’s  game  reserve  into  wild  country,  she’d  taken  to  repeating


‘everything will be fine’ over and over. Each time, it rang a little less true. 


‘You’ll see,’ she went on. ‘We’re going to get out of this.’


‘Whatever “this” is,’ Ralph said. ‘Gerhard has to be planning more than just selling the opportunity to hunt and kill his own predasaurs. He’s gone to so much time, effort, expense. He’d never get back his investment.’


‘We’ve been over this fifty times,’ said Robyn wearily. ‘He uses footage from  the  hunts  to  create  cut-scenes  for   
Predasaur
.  It’s  the  biggest  game franchise in the world. He’s already more than rich enough, and he doesn’t care. It’s the achievement that matters to him, not the money. He wants to play God.’


‘But  in  the  meantime  he’ll  play  video  games  with  the  president,’  Ralph scoffed.  ‘Well,  at  least  Mbato’s  easier  to  read.  He’s  using  Gerhard’s  cash and power to help him win the next election.’


‘And  Gerhard  will  be  getting  something  juicy  in  return,  you  can  bet. 


Which is why the pair of them will never stop coming after us …’ Robyn looked  down  at  Ralph’s  dead  mobile  phone.  Hidden  inside  it  was  video evidence they’d shot of Mbato hunting one of the predasaurs – linking him not only to illegally grown monsters but also to the source of the virus. It was  dynamite  evidence  of  guilt  that  could  destroy  Mbato’s  career  –


evidence that he and Gerhard would do anything to destroy. 


Niko tried again. ‘We have to trust your father. He’s been in worse scrapes than this before. He’ll bring an end to this madness.’


‘At a top speed of two kilometres per day,’ said Ralph, eyeing their slow progress through the jeep’s window. 


‘You’d rather run straight into armed mercenaries or a predasaur’s jaws?’


Niko  snapped.  ‘If  we’re  spotted,  Mbato  will  send  a  squad  to  take  us  out, along with the evidence, just like he did at Gauda.’


‘Fair  point,’  said  Robyn  softly.  The  memory  made  her  feel  sick.  She’d been with Niko at the small village of Gauda at the start of this whole thing, and Niko, who was a professor of epidemiology and zoonotic diseases, had been called in for her medical expertise. The people of Gauda had started to die  from  the  mystery  virus,  spread  by  someone  from  Gerhard’s  lab,  so armed mercenaries descended and destroyed the village completely – all for nothing, it turned out, since the virus had already started to spread through the  wider  population.  It  was  terrifying  to  think  how  far  the  virus  might already  have  spread  in  the  outside  world:  it  was  as  ravening  and unstoppable as a pack of predasaurs, as relentlessly efficient at killing as a squad of mercenaries. 


Robyn  shuddered.  With  so  many  enemies,  so  many  threats,  how  long could they stay free? 


Suddenly,  Niko  braked  hard.  The  jeep  was  going  dead  slow,  but  still Robyn and Ralph were thrown forward. A figure emerged from the foliage ahead of them, holding up a hand in greeting. 


‘Grant.’ Robyn stared, concerned, as the teenager approached and opened her door. Warm air, floral and nutty with the scent of nearby marula blooms, 


brought a welcome perfume to the sweat-soaked interior of the jeep. Ralph shuffled along to make room as Grant pushed inside beside Robyn. 


‘Hey,’  Grant  said.  Though  he  was  addressing  everyone,  Robyn  felt  his eyes linger on her, and smiled. 


Grant was just sixteen, six months older than Robyn, but it was as if the saying  ‘an  old  head  on  young  shoulders’  had  been  invented  for  him.  His politician  dad  was  head  of  the  Green  Freedom  Party  and  had  long campaigned  against  Mbato,  which  had  led  in  the  end  to  Grant  being abducted and plunged into the same deadly ordeal as Robyn and her family. 


When  they’d  set  off  on  their  escape,  Grant  had  stayed  in  the  jeep  with Robyn, Ralph and Niko, and Roland and Xai had communicated with them from the truck using encrypted short-range walkie talkies. But as the days passed  and  the  batteries  died,  the  kids  took  turns  to  act  as  messengers between the two vehicles, passing along information and instructions. 


‘Well,  Grant?’  Niko  asked  tensely.  ‘Are  we  any  closer  to  finding  the tribe?’


‘Maybe.’  Grant  shrugged.  ‘Past  the  treeline  there’s  an  old  dried-up riverbed  that’s  been  fed  by  these  floods.  Xai  thinks  it  leads  to  a  path  he remembers; driving through the water would hide our tracks.’


Ralph sat up straight. ‘Don’t tell me our luck is finally changing?’


‘Nope,’ said Grant, grimacing. ‘There’s no easy way through the trees to get  down  to  it.  Roland’s  searching  right  now.  Fingers  crossed  he  finds  a clear path.’


Ralph  held  up  two  sets  of  crossed  fingers  and  looked  none  too  subtly between  Grant  and  Robyn.  ‘Is  there  someone  else  that  you  want?  Sorry! 


Some 
thing
 else …’


Robyn punched his arm. ‘So funny.’ She’d noticed Grant giving her shy glances, as well as his share of their final ration of chocolate; she still had the  very  last  piece  tucked  deep  in  her  pocket.  She  spent  half  her  time daydreaming about what things would be like if they’d met under different circumstances – and a long way away from her nosy younger brother. 


Grant cleared his throat awkwardly. ‘Roland asked me to tell you to wait here. If there’s no way across, you’ll have to reverse along this track.’


Niko said nothing, but Robyn saw how white her knuckles were, gripping the  steering  wheel.  If  anyone  –  or  anything  –  was  following  their  trail, 


reversing  would  carry  them  straight  into  danger.  Robyn  felt  a  wave  of complicated sympathy. She’d resented Niko ever since she’d started dating her dad, and always used to keep her at arm’s length. But now, they were all in this together, win or lose. Live or die. 


‘You’re tired,’ Robyn said. ‘Why don’t I take the front seat for a bit while you rest in the back here?’


Niko looked set to object, then her shoulders slumped. ‘All right. Thanks. 


I’ll take you up on that.’


Grant looked a little disappointed, but he pulled on the handle and started to  open  the  door.  ‘Yeah,  come  on,  Niko,’  he  said.  ‘You  can  put  up  with Ralph’s stinky pits in the back for a –’


‘ 
Stop! 
’ Ralph shouted, as the hoots and shrieks of small monkeys making their predator alarm noises echoed through the acacia trees. 


Robyn jumped, and turned quickly enough to catch a flash of dusky gold. 


Something  massive  leaped  at  the  side  of  their  jeep.  The  door  was  thrown violently  shut,  knocking  Grant  into  her.  She  yelled  in  shock  as  two  huge paws slammed down on the window and the vehicle rocked wildly. Grant and Niko screamed as two narrowed, crimson eyes stared in at them. 


‘Predasaur!’ Ralph shouted. 


The beast was standing on its hind legs, bracing its front paws against the window.  It  was  a  cave  lion,  Robyn  realised,  almost  twice  the  size  of  a regular lion. Its muzzle was scarred and half of one ear was chewed away. 


She had seen those scars before. 


‘It’s  the  one  we  saw  in  Gerhard’s  reserve,’  said  Ralph  breathlessly.  ‘I knew something would come after us through that hole in the fence!’


The  giant  lion  thumped  a  paw  against  the  window  again,  and  the  glass cracked. Its jaws gaped open to show fearsomely large pointed incisors. 


Niko was frozen in shock. Robyn slapped her on the shoulder. ‘Move!’


The jeep’s engines roared into life and the vehicle lurched forward along the  track.  There  was  a  rending  of  metal  as  the  cave  lion’s  heavy  claws scraped against the bodywork and the creature fell away. Robyn watched it roll over and spring back to its feet, charging after them. 


‘It’s  coming!’  Niko  shouted,  accelerating  through  the  mopane  branches, which clawed at the jeep. 


‘Niko,  you’re  leaving  the  path!’  Ralph  warned  her.  He  had  grabbed  the handgun  from  the  pouch  in  the  back  of  the  driver’s  seat  –  they  had  three rounds  left  –  but  the  jeep  was  rocking  too  hard  for  him  to  aim.  The  cave lion  gave  an  ear-splitting  roar.  Through  the  rear  windscreen,  Robyn glimpsed the hefty muscles in its back legs bunch as it hurled itself towards them. The cave lion’s weight gave it great momentum – and Robyn realised they could use that against it. 


‘Brake!’ bawled Robyn. ‘Now!’


Niko slammed on the brakes. The jeep jolted to a stop and the lion crashed into  its  roof,  its  hind  paws  thumping  against  the  filthy  rear  windscreen. 


With a growl that was angrier still, the beast swung its huge shaggy head down  and  glared  in  at  them  through  a  side  window  then  jumped  down, drool stringing from its jaws. 


‘Open the window,’ Ralph hissed, raising the revolver. ‘Just a crack –’


A  shot  fired,  but  not  from  Ralph’s  gun.  The  lion  fell  forward.  A  neat, crimson bullet hole showed in the back of its head as the beast slumped to the leafy ground and lay still. 


Robyn gulped in shaky breaths. ‘Who shot that thing? Who’s out there?’


Then they heard footsteps, and the snap of branches breaking. Something was charging towards them. 




2


‘Dad!’ Ralph sat forward, trembling with relief, as he saw his father emerge from the greenery. 


Roland Ballantyne held his rifle at the ready, his gaunt face chiselled with concern. ‘Everyone all right?’


Robyn  leaned  over  Grant  and  forced  open  the  battered  jeep’s  door.  She almost pushed Grant out of the four-by-four and ran to hug her father. Ralph scrambled out after her. He shuddered as he looked down at the cave lion’s body. 


‘Nice shot, Dad,’ he said. ‘But how are you here? I thought you were in the truck with Xai.’


‘Just  after  we  let  Grant  out  and  moved  on,  the  ground  gave  way.  The truck’s  rear  axle’s  damaged.  I  came  to  get  an  extra  jack  from  the  back  of your jeep, heard the commotion, and …’ His words faded as they all looked at the fallen predasaur again. It had been a seriously close call. 


‘Thank you, sir,’ Grant said solemnly. 


‘Good timing,’ Niko agreed. 


Roland gently disengaged himself from Robyn’s embrace and crossed to hold  Niko.  Ralph  looked  at  his  sister’s  face  as  she  turned  away  silently. 


Robyn  was  always  down  on  Niko.  She  felt  that  Niko  was  trying  to  wipe away the memory of their mum. But Mum had died years ago of Ebola, and Ralph was glad that his dad felt able to move on now. 


As  he’d  learned  these  last  ten  days,  moving  on  any  distance  at  all  was definitely a good thing. 


Gently pulling away from Niko, Roland crossed to the corpse of the giant lion-beast and crouched beside it. ‘Incredible.’ He brushed his fingers along the tufted fur of the creature’s shoulders and looked up at Ralph and Robyn. 


‘It’s  more  primitive  than  any  lion  I’ve  ever  seen.  One  of  Gerhard’s evolutionary throwbacks?’


‘Grown in a lab,’ Robyn agreed. ‘I’m glad you’ve stopped his suffering.’


She knelt beside the cave lion and placed a hand on its flank. ‘Gerhard bred these animals to be in constant pain to make them wilder, more savage, a


“worthy”  hunt.’  She  shook  her  head.  ‘Poor  thing.  We’ve  seen  this  lion before, with …’ Her voice clogged in her throat. 


‘With Luke,’ Ralph finished her sentence quietly. 


Luke van Rok had been a family friend. His dad owned VanRok Security, which  provided  the  video  monitoring  and  security  systems  for  Crocodile Lodge. With all his tech know-how, Luke had helped Ralph and Robyn get into  Gerhard’s  reserve  to  investigate  –  but  he  hadn’t  made  it  back  out. 


They’d last seen him wounded and fleeing from hyena-beasts into a gully, heard his screams as the predasaurs set upon him. Ralph shuddered at the memory. 


Grant  must’ve  noticed,  as  he  placed  a  comforting  hand  on  Ralph’s shoulder. ‘We’ll get justice for Luke. And for Dane,’ he said quietly. Dane Mellanby  had  been  a  well-known  environmental  activist  and  Grant’s mentor;  Ralph  had  seen  his  photo  on  Mbato’s  ‘trophy  board’  of  political opponents who had died in the sickening predasaur hunts. ‘We’ll get justice for everyone Mbato and Gerhard had hunted down like animals.’


‘I just thought,’ said Robyn. ‘Gerhard hasn’t been able to find us himself


… so maybe he’s sent his creations to do the job?’


‘What do you mean?’ asked Niko. 


‘Gerhard  chips  all  his  animals,’  said  Robyn.  ‘He  doesn’t  just  track  their health, he tracks their location –’


‘So  he  will  know  exactly  where  this  lion  was  killed,’  said  Ralph.  ‘Who else but us could’ve brought it down out here? Mbato’s soldiers will come looking …’


‘And our tracks are everywhere,’ Grant realised. 


‘We need to get to the truck and fix it, so we can get away,’ said Roland. 


He grabbed a tyre jack from the back of the jeep then swung himself into the driving seat. ‘Everyone aboard. Now.’


The note of cold urgency in his father’s voice made Ralph feel sick as he climbed  back  into  the  jeep.  Roland  started  the  engine,  Niko  got  in  beside him, and Robyn had barely climbed in next to Grant before the jeep jumped into  reverse.  Ralph  fastened  his  seat  belt  as  the  vehicle  rattled  over  the rocky terrain, crashing over the broken branches as they backtracked along the path Niko had carved out through the trees to escape the cave lion. Then Roland accelerated onto the route through the thick undergrowth that would lead them to the truck. 


Suddenly the jeep lurched to the left, its wheels losing traction. Looking out the window, Robyn shouted, ‘Mudslide!’


‘Hang on!’ Roland steered into the skid, the jeep’s tyres chewing on thick mud, which spattered against the windows like blood as he fought to keep control. The squawks of terrified birds mingled with the roar of the engine as the vehicle slewed around in a half circle and slammed into trees, each impact  sickening.  Then  the  engine  puttered  out,  leaving  an  eerie  silence broken only by the cries of distant animals. 


‘Damn the rain,’ Niko said. 


Grant groaned in exasperation. ‘Is nothing on our side?’


‘ 
Nothing
  is   
exactly
  what’s  on  my  side,’  Robyn  said  hoarsely,  holding herself statue-still. ‘No sudden moves. We’re on a precipice.’


Carefully, Ralph craned his neck to look around. Trees drooped away from them, their thick earthy roots displayed in candid tangles. The level ground had been swept away in the avalanche of mud, rock and vegetation, leaving a steep but navigable slope leading down to a wide riverbed, stony brown with a strip of glistening water running through its middle. Wildebeest and impala  that  must  have  gathered  there  to  drink  were  now  sprinting  away from the unnatural commotion. 


‘Well,’ said Roland quietly, watching them run. ‘At least the going will be easier down in the valley.’


‘But  not  in  this,’  said  Niko,  leaning  out  of  the  passenger  window.  ‘This tyre’s toast.’


‘We can get out this side,’ said Ralph. He opened the door on the right and carefully led the way out. ‘Guess we’ll have to reach Xai on foot.’


‘No need. Xai has come to  
you
.’


Ralph  jumped,  then  relaxed  with  a  smile  as  the  familiar  short,  stocky figure of Xai stepped out from behind a red bushwillow, his rifle lowered to his side. The deep wrinkles in his weathered face owed as much to laughter as to age. 


‘Hey, Xai. Guess you heard us coming, huh?’ Ralph said. 


‘Not for nothing were my tracking skills so highly valued in Ballantyne’s Brigade,’ Xai said drily. Then he placed a hand on Roland’s shoulder. ‘We need to get back to the truck. Developments.’


‘Right,’ said Roland briskly, handing him the tyre jack from the jeep. ‘The rest  of  you  –  clear  out  the  jeep.  All  our  equipment.  Eat  something,  then follow on.’


As  the  two  men  disappeared  into  the  bushveld,  Grant  looked  uneasy. 


‘Something’s happened. Why are they leaving us out of it?’


‘They  won’t  for  long,’  said  Robyn.  She  crossed  her  arms  and  frowned, staring after their dad and Xai. Ralph saw the frustration in her posture as clearly as if she’d yelled at them. 


‘She’ll see to that,’ Ralph agreed. 


‘I guess Xai has reasons for not telling us all here,’ Grant said, like he was trying to convince himself. Ralph knew that Grant hadn’t had such an easy childhood; the poor guy had fessed up to being closer to his nannies than his  parents:  his  dad  had  been  so  focused  on  building  the  Green  Freedom Party into a major political force that he didn’t have much time for bonding with  his  son.  Grant  didn’t  share  the  same  unconditional  trust  that  Robyn, Ralph and Niko had in Roland and Xai. 


Carefully,  Ralph  opened  the  trunk.  Their  equipment  amounted  to  three hunting  rifles  with  sights;  a  few  rounds  of  ammunition;  a  revolver;  a depleted first aid kit; the last of their field rations; a petrol can half-full of diesel; and three satellite phones with dead batteries. Ralph picked up one and  cradled  it  carefully.  In  its  sleeping  memory  was  the  precious  video footage  they’d  taken  of  Mbato  hunting  a  giant  crocodile  monster  –  proof that  South  Africa’s  big-game-hunter  president  was  actively  involved  with Gerhard’s sick schemes. Proof enough, Ralph hoped, to prompt a probe into


Mbato’s private affairs – and enough scandal to bring him down ahead of the  upcoming  election.  Beyond  that,  though,  the  phones  were  useless; Gerhard had a whole flock of communications satellites in geosynchronous orbit over his land and the surrounding area, suppressing all signals. Even if the  phones  had  battery,  their  group  had  no  way  of  contacting  the  outside world or finding out how far the virus had spread. 


‘Kids,’  Niko  called.  She  was  clearing  confetti  bush  leaves  from  the glovebox – they’d been using them as deodorisers, with limited success –


and stuffing them into a trouser pocket. ‘Chow time.’


‘Wild sorrel. Again. Yay,’ Ralph said. 


Robyn sighed. ‘What I wouldn’t give for a veggie burger.’


In his expansive office in the Union Buildings in Pretoria, President Julius Mbato  sprawled  back  against  the  butter-soft  leather  of  his  chair,  fingers tracing the fine woodgrain of his desk. He hated situations getting out of his control.  Gazing  around  at  his  surroundings  was  usually  a  way  to  centre himself,  to  remind  himself  of  his  status  and  achievements.  The  matching bookcases held books chosen to impress. The comfortable armchairs placed on the richly patterned carpet had held the backsides of allies and enemies alike  over  the  years:  politicians,  dignitaries,  journalists,  all  trying  to  court him, or negotiate, or plead for his support. 


Over  the  last  several  days  people  had  poured  in  and  out  of  the  office, preferring to stand while bringing him bad news so they could escape his presence more quickly. They had brought news of the spread of the mystery virus. The spread of civic unrest. The spread of panic. 


 
You’re in charge
, he told himself.  
You’re in control. No one and nothing
 
can take that away from you. 


There was a knock at the door and his assistant entered. ‘I’ve brought you the latest polling forecast as requested, sir.’


Mbato  glanced  at  her,  not  moving  from  his  comfortable  position.  She hesitated  a  moment  then  placed  the  tablet  on  his  desk,  where  the  bright glow  of  multicoloured  opinion  graphs  contrasted  with  the  smooth,  heavy blackwood. 


Only  after  she  had  retreated  across  the  plush  carpet  and  out  of  the presidential office did he pick up the tablet. He frowned at the infographics. 


The  Green  Freedom  Party’s  numbers  were  improving  and  his  personal ratings had dropped sharply. Typical of the whining, ungrateful masses. As if this damn virus sweeping from South Africa around the world was down to him! 


No. It was down to Gerhard. 


Mbato’s fingers slowly closed into a fist. His partnership with Gerhard had been  a  profitable  one  –  the  man’s  money  and  manipulations  had  helped Mbato  get  into  office,  but  had  brought  obligations  and  temptations.  The binding  ties  that  once  had  dangled  so  pleasingly  now  felt  garotte-tight around Mbato’s neck. 


Gerhard’s  price  for  propping  up  Mbato’s  presidency  was  for  Mbato’s government  to  sell  Gerhard  a  good  chunk  of  the  Kruger  National  Park. 


Fine. He’d agreed. But then Gerhard had sought more concessions to fuel his  ambitions,  offering  Mbato  so  much  in  return:  to  hunt  and  kill  his homemade monsters through his private grounds … and then to do the same to his political opponents too. 


 
He’s played you
, Mbato thought.  
Tapped into your greed for power. 
 Now they were steeped in so much blood, it was impossible to break clear. And all Mbato’s compromises and betrayals and murders would be for nothing if he couldn’t clean up Gerhard’s mess. 


His phone buzzed softly. Mbato looked down at the message, which came with no name or number attached. 


 
TARGETS LOCATED. AUTHORISE STRIKE? 


Mbato typed two letters. 


 
Go. 




3


Chewing on peppery leaves, Ralph and Grant followed Niko and Robyn as they trailed Roland and Xai to the truck. The sultry heat of the day curled about  Ralph’s  body  like  rising  smoke.  Since  the  mudslide,  the  tree  cover had  grown  dramatically  thinner.  He  gazed  up  overhead,  scanning  for Gerhard’s drones, which were surely on their way by now, and felt horribly conspicuous. 


‘The truck’s on the other side of this thicket,’ Grant said, gesturing past a clump of stunted knobthorn trees. 


Suddenly  a  loud,  harsh  voice  barked  from  the  undergrowth  ahead  –  a voice Ralph didn’t recognise. 


 
‘So many dead,’
 it snapped.  
‘And it’s spreading, isn’t it?’


Robyn passed one of her rifles to Niko. Ralph checked the revolver was loaded – his extensive safety training made the moves automatic. Then, as one,  they  crept  forward  through  the  undergrowth.  But  Roland  heard  them even over the static. 


‘It’s all right,’ he called. ‘It’s only the handheld radio.’


Ralph frowned. ‘But Gerhard’s been suppressing all communications.’


‘Satellites can’t stop Ham radio broadcasts,’ said Xai quietly. ‘They rely on antennae and repeaters. Use different frequencies.’


‘Whoever’s broadcasting that must be close by, for us to pick him up on the handheld,’ said Ralph. 


‘Got to go,’ the voice from the radio went on. ‘Family needs me. Out.’


Ralph emerged from the thicket and stared around the small clearing. The voice had stopped; now only the static hissed and crackled. Roland leaned against the truck, fiddling with the handheld radio. The vehicle was facing away  from  Ralph:  jacked  up  at  the  rear,  it  listed  forward,  poised precariously as if ready to crush the little crowd of saplings clustered before it and slither down the steep, muddy slope towards the riverbed. Xai lay in the mud, working busily underneath the truck to make the repairs. 


Roland gave up on the radio, which still hissed and warbled its symphony of wavelengths. ‘Was that the same voice, Xai?’


‘Same as I heard while you were gone,’ Xai confirmed. ‘That’s why I was on my way to fetch you.’


‘Who was that?’ Robyn demanded. ‘One of Mbato’s mercenaries?’


‘We  used  to  serve  in  the  Recce  with  someone  who  runs  a  tourist  lodge here,’ said Xai. ‘A man called Yonker. Up in the mountains.’


‘Does it sound like him?’ said Robyn. 


‘I think it does,’ said Roland. 


‘But can he help us?’ said Niko. 


‘Yonker’s  technically  retired,  but  he’s  still  available  for  special operations.’  Roland  looked  at  Niko.  ‘When  we  went  to  Pretoria  to  try  to find out what had gone down in Gauda, we heard he’d been involved.’


‘And is he involved in trying to find us now?’ asked Robyn. 


‘It seems they’ve contacted him again, yes,’ said Xai. ‘There’s a pandemic brewing and everyone’s left his resort.’


‘So, he’s got nothing better to do than hunt down his old comrades?’ said Ralph bitterly. ‘Great.’


‘It’s an opportunity for us,’ said Roland stoically. ‘By listening in on his transmissions, we can learn the enemy’s position –’


Niko shushed him. ‘Listen,’ she said. ‘That’s not just static from the radio


…’


Robyn  and  Grant  looked  puzzled.  But  Ralph  could  hear  it  too,  growing louder over the birdsong of the bushveld. A rising, whirring noise …


‘Dad,’ he said, licking his lips. ‘I think we’ve got company!’


There was a sudden deafening roar of engines. Something huge and dark rose  up  in  front  of  them  from  the  riverbed:  a  large  military  helicopter  in camo colours, gleaming in the sunlight. Two camera drones soared through the  air  above,  filming  the  action  as  rotors  whipped  up  a  storm  of  dust. 


Blinking grit from his watering eyes, Ralph saw a gunner making ready in the cockpit. 


‘Take  cover!’  Roland  roared  as  the  chilling  rattle  of  a  machine  gun  cut through the chaos. ‘Gerhard’s found us!’


As gunfire tore through the air, Ralph threw himself under the truck beside Xai. The saplings ahead of them danced and splintered in a hail of bullets. 


Niko  screamed  and  Grant  shouted  and  the  truck  rocked  above  Ralph  as people climbed in, accompanied by a chorus of metallic ricochets. 


‘Ralph!’ came his father’s shout. ‘Xai?’


‘We’re  all  right,’  Xai  shouted  back.  ‘Ralph,  give  me  your  rifle.’  He snatched  the  Krieghoff  Classic  ‘Big  Five’  double  from  Ralph’s  grip  and rolled  out  from  beneath  the  truck,  cocking  the  rifle  as  he  went.  Xai  fired both barrels to the helicopter, and the discharge rang in Ralph’s ears. The wind grew less fierce as the chopper pulled away. Crawling on his elbows to peep past Xai, Ralph saw that Roland was out of the truck too, sheltering behind the driver’s door and firing his own rifle through the open window, driving back their attackers. 


‘Get  in,  Ralph!’  Robyn  yelled,  throwing  open  the  rear  passenger  door. 


Ralph scrambled out from under the truck and Robyn and Grant pulled him in. Niko was sheltering in the footwell. Ralph lay beside her, grateful as her hand found his and squeezed tight. 


‘What do we do?’ Grant shouted. 


‘We get the hell out of here.’ Xai kicked the jack away from the rear left of the truck, which dropped down with a crunch. More bullets spat from the chopper’s cockpit as Xai dived into the passenger seat. Roland was already in  and  gunning  the  engine.  Ralph  scrambled  into  the  middle  of  the  back seat.  Through  the  mud-splattered  windscreen  he  could  see  the  ungainly shape of the large helicopter arcing up into the air away from them, ready to bank  around  for  a  second  pass.  Then  the  truck  lurched  forward  with  a metallic scrunch as it left the other jack behind. Trying to stay calm, Ralph grabbed the seat belt and buckled up as they plunged down the side of the


valley on the jumble of soil and debris from the mudslide. They bumped so hard  over  the  terrain  that  Ralph  was  sure  the  truck  would  flip  and somersault, crashing onto its back and sledging the rest of the distance. But somehow  the  tyres  kept  their  grip,  and  Roland  managed  to  avoid  the thickest  trees,  carving  a  great  skid  into  the  muddy  sand  of  the  riverbank before  straightening  up.  They  accelerated  away,  skipping  over  the floodplain, the shimmering strap of water running to their left. 


‘Hope you finished those repairs,’ Grant said. 


‘So do I,’ said Xai, as Roland accelerated. ‘I guess this is the proving run.’


Robyn  helped  Niko  to  sit  between  her  and  Grant  as  the  helicopter swooped  away,  parting  company  with  the  drones  that  lingered  overhead. 


‘Where’s the copter going?’


‘It’ll  be  scouting  the  way  ahead,’  Roland  reported.  ‘Trying  to  anticipate our movements so they can radio back-up to cut us off.’


‘That  chopper  is  an  Oryx,’  Xai  remarked.  ‘Manufactured  by  Denel Aerospace Systems for the South African Air Force.’


Ralph pulled a face. ‘So?’


‘So,  this  attack  isn’t  black  ops,’  Roland  explained.  ‘That  copter  may  be crewed by mercenaries instead of regular troops, but it makes the mission official. Sanctioned by the president, funded by the public.’


Niko swore. ‘Mbato just declared war on us.’


Ralph felt his chest tighten as he thought through the implications of this. 


Mbato wasn’t keeping his pursuit of them a secret any more, wasn’t afraid of people knowing that he was hunting the Ballantynes. ‘After two weeks drawing a blank, he and Gerhard must be desperate for results.’


Grant nodded. ‘So, now they’re chucking everything at us.’


‘Only they’re not,’ said Roland. ‘The Mitrailleuse d’Appui Général light machine guns on that helicopter can fire a thousand rounds per minute up to a  range  of  eight  hundred  metres.  They  could  have  cut  us  to  ribbons  back there if they’d wanted to.’


‘This  isn’t  a  private  operation  any  more,’  Niko  supposed.  ‘There’s accountability.’


Grant nodded. ‘And if it ever comes out that Mbato ordered three kids to be shot in the run-up to the elections, that’s gonna harm his chances.’


Ralph’s  mind  raced.  It  was  like  having  the  goals  for  a  game  change halfway through a level. ‘Do we think, then, that Mbato wants us alive?’


No one answered. But all the faces around him were drawn and doubtful. 


Ahead  of  them  the  helicopter  was  coming  in  low  towards  them  again. 


Through the open doorway of the brutal-looking aircraft, Ralph could make out the gunner lining them up in his sights. The machine gun roared into life once more. Ralph’s eyes widened in horror as a line of impact explosions tore up the riverbed in front of them. They were driving headlong into the hail of bullets! 


Roland wrenched the wheel hard to the left and the truck turned to avoid the  rain  of  death.  Ralph  bit  his  lip  as  his  dad  stamped  on  the  accelerator. 


Straight ahead of them now was a dead leadwood tree that had fallen in the mudslide and collapsed across part of the riverbank. The only way to avoid it was to drive back up towards the forest. But that wasn’t an option. 


‘Hang on!’ Roland yelled. 


They hit the slope with an impact that seemed set to shake the teeth from Ralph’s  head.  For  a  moment  they  were  airborne,  then  they  slammed  back onto the ground with another bone-jarring impact. As they landed, the truck lurched  to  one  side.  For  one  heart-stopping  second,  Ralph  thought  they were going to topple over. At the last moment the truck righted itself and, with a cry that was half rage and half triumph, Roland changed gear once more and the truck raced towards the forest. 


‘The copter’s still coming!’ Robyn shouted. 


Ralph could practically feel the thud of the rotor blades as the helicopter closed in behind them. Then the air was filled with the death-rattle roar of the  machine  gun  as  it  opened  fire  yet  again.  Grant  and  Niko  screamed  in terror as bullets battered the back of the truck. Roland started to weave the truck wildly from side to side. The treeline bumped painfully closer. Cover. 


A chance to hide. 


 
We’re going to make it
, Ralph thought, hope rising. 


Then there was a loud bang and the truck dropped at one side. Above the roar  of  the  engine  Ralph  could  hear  the   
thwack-thwack-thwack
  of  torn rubber beating against the underside of the truck. The bullets had burst at least  one  of  their  tyres.  The  tailgate  banged  open  and  equipment  tumbled out – rations, rifles, ammo, a petrol can. 


‘We’re losing everything!’ Grant yelled. 


Ralph  swore  as  the  drones  dropped  in  altitude,  closing  in.  
And  the  next
 
thing we lose is our lives
. 


‘All  right,  listen!’  Roland  yelled  as  the  listing  truck  began  to  slow.  ‘I’m going  to  stop.  Ralph,  Robyn,  Grant  –  take  the  phone  with  the  predasaur hunt video and run for the forest. Xai, Niko – we’ll hold them off.’


Ralph gripped the phone in sweaty hands. ‘You won’t stand a chance!’ he said, his voice cracking. 


‘We won’t leave you,’ Robyn told her father. ‘We can’t.’


‘We’ll deal with them and then we’ll come find you,’ said Niko. 


Roland threw a look over his shoulder as he stopped the truck. ‘You’ve got this, guys. I trust you.’


Ralph swallowed hard. He had wished so many times to hear these words from his dad. But not like this. Never like this. 


The  forest  was  tantalisingly  close,  but  the  helicopter  was  even  closer. 


Ralph held his breath as the noise of the twin turboshaft engines grew until it drowned out everything else. He closed his eyes, waiting for the sound of the machine gun to join the cacophony. 


It didn’t come. 


The  helicopter  was  landing  on  the  flat  riverbed,  turning  its  rear  towards them. ‘Protecting the cockpit,’ Ralph reasoned numbly. ‘Heavy-duty cargo doors are more resistant than a cockpit, even an armoured one –’


The clunk of the truck door opening cut him off, and his dad’s bawl made him jump. ‘Robyn,  
no
!’


His sister had jumped out and was sprinting towards the supplies that had tumbled  out  of  the  truck.  Grant  hesitated  for  a  moment,  then  bolted  after her, ignoring Niko’s shouted order to wait. 


Ralph made to follow, but Roland shouted at him. ‘Ralph,  
stop
!’ Such was the authority in his voice that Ralph froze instantly. 


Xai finished loading the rifle he’d taken from Ralph and held it back out to him. ‘Take this, Ralph. You’ll have to help us cover those two.’


Ralph stepped out, using the rear door as cover just as Xai had. He saw that Grant, an excellent sprinter, had already caught up with Robyn and was trying to pull her back. 


She shook off his hand. ‘Grab some equipment,’ she ordered. ‘We stand no chance without it. Go!’


‘Rob,  Grant,  get  back  here!’  Ralph  shouted  desperately.  He  gripped  his own rifle in sweaty hands as a metallic clank from the copter’s cargo bay made his insides quail. The drones fanned out around the copter. The heavy door slowly swung open from the top, ready to create a ramp down to the damp sand. 


‘Back,  
now
, you two!’ Roland yelled. He and Xai jumped from the vehicle and took up defensive positions behind the truck’s battered bonnet. 


But either Grant and Robyn couldn’t hear or they didn’t want to; she was racing for a box of ammo and he for the rifle that would fire them. 


‘Do we surrender?’ said Niko. 


As  the  cargo  bay  ramp  struck  the  sand,  Ralph  imagined  himself  and  the others captured by the troops, prodded inside its dark depths like animals. 


Then he saw that the animals were already inside. 


Two bright red eyes appeared. A colossal, cat-like shape slunk cautiously into the sunlight, its broad nose sniffing the air. Each paw was the size of a dinner plate. A second giant beast emerged behind it, its neck and shoulders rippling  with  muscle.  Then  a  third  padded  out.  The  long,  curved  fangs  of the three giant beasts glistened with drool. 


With a deep stab of terror, Ralph realised they were facing a pack of sabretoothed tigers. 




4


Robyn clutched the box of ammo to her chest, frozen in horror. In Gerhard’s compound she’d found herself trapped in a cage with one of these red-eyed monsters  and  she’d  barely  survived.  Now  she  was  facing   
three
.  Her instincts  screamed  at  her  to  turn  and  run  –  instincts  that  had  been  part  of human make-up from ancient times.  
Mbato’s men don’t have to fill us with
 
bullets, 
  she  realised.  
They  can  stay  safely  on  board  while  they  let  these
 
creatures rip us apart
. 


As  the  drones  whirred  overhead  like  vultures,  the  predasaur  sabretooths prowled and twitched, their red eyes narrowed. The nearest threw back its huge  head  and  gave  a  rumbling,  throaty  growl.  Robyn  forced  herself  to meet the beast’s stare, to try to reach out to it. To empathise. Usually, the connection she felt with wild animals bordered on spiritual. She had even befriended  two  lion  cubs  as  a  child,  and  the  bond  of  mutual  trust  and protection between them endured to this day: Robyn could read each flicker of emotion in their amber eyes. But these sabretooths were more than Ice Age  animals  reclaimed  from  extinction.  They  were  vehicles  of  pain,  rage and  appetite,  engineered  by  Gerhard  for  one  purpose  –  to  kill,  and preferably on camera. 


‘Grant, Robyn, get down,’ Roland bellowed behind them. ‘You’re in the line of fire.’


She caught movement from the corner of her eye. It was Grant, throwing himself to the ground. His elbow struck the petrol can with a clang and it


toppled onto its side. Precious fuel spilled from the broken cap, sucked in greedily by the earth. 


 
No! That’s all we have spare – we need every drop! 
 Robyn couldn’t help herself – she ran to grab the can and set it upright. 


At the same moment, the nearest sabretooth ran too. Straight at Grant. 


The  beast  was  a  savage  blur  of  ivory  teeth  and  corded  muscle.  Time seemed  to  slow.  Gunfire  cracked  out.  The  predasaur  took  a  hit,  blood welling from a wound in its neck, but the impact barely fazed the giant cat; it was too big, too angry to stop. Robyn dropped the box of rounds and fell to  the  earth  beside  Grant.  As  the  sabretooth  bore  down  on  them,  she grabbed the fallen can and swung it with all her strength against the beast’s face, splashing petrol into its red eyes. Crazed, the creature thrust its head forward,  ready  to  bite  Robyn’s  own  head  clean  off.  Terrified,  she  held  up the  fuel  can  in  front  of  her  face  to  protect  herself.  The  predasaur’s  fangs clamped down, twisting and piercing the metal. With a growl of anger the sabretooth recoiled, the canister wedged between its jaws, petrol splashing everywhere. 


 
Damn it! 
 Robyn thought. 


The  sabretooth’s  reaction  spooked  its  two  brothers;  they  reared  up  and skittered backward as more bullets began to fly. 


Grant rolled over and snatched up the ammo that Robyn had dropped. She got up too and saw a white plastic box she didn’t recognise embedded in the soft  mud  beside  her.  She  stooped,  grabbed  it,  and  ran  with  Grant  for  the shelter  of  the  truck.  A  blood-curdling  roar  filled  the  air  and  she  pushed herself  faster.  Ahead  of  her  she  could  see  Xai,  Niko,  her  dad  and  Ralph ranged around the truck, their firearms at the ready. She ducked but kept up the punishing pace as they started to fire past her. 


‘Keep going,’ Ralph shouted. He fired then winced as the recoil shunted at his shoulder. ‘Come on, Rob!’


With a last despairing push, Robyn threw herself under the rear passenger door  like  a  base  runner  sliding  into  home  base  in  the  last  innings.  Niko crouched over her, but not to check she was OK. Instead, she twisted free the white plastic box Robyn still clung to and opened it. 


 
Flare pistol
, Robyn realised. She watched for a few seconds as Niko, who knew the dangers of South Africa’s wildlife, having treated patients up and


down the Crocodile River, calmly but swiftly took the bright orange pistol and loaded a cartridge from the clip attached to the handle. 


Propping  herself  up  on  her  elbows,  Robyn  dared  to  check  on  the  tiger-beasts.  And  what  she  saw  chilled  her.  At  first  she  thought  the  two sabretooths  had  ganged  up  on  the  one  with  the  petrol  can  jammed  in  its jaws; tigers were solitary creatures, they didn’t do well in groups. But no. 


They were  
helping
 their brother. Heedless of the bullets smacking into the side  of  the  helicopter,  the  beasts  were  biting  and  swiping  at  the  dented canister with their heavy paws to free their fellow sabretooth. 


It was unnatural. But then, so were predasaurs. And if they felt like part of a  pack,  perhaps  they  sensed  that  they  would  have  more  success  working together. 


‘Why are you guys wasting ammo on the copter?’ Grant panted, joining Ralph behind the door. ‘Those monsters are the target!’


‘Take  them  out  and  we’re  still  left  with  all  the  troops  on  board.’  Ralph took the loaded flare pistol from Niko. ‘When we saw you’d picked this up, we changed tactics …’


‘ 
Got it
!’ Roland yelled over him. ‘Now, Ralph!’


Robyn  followed  her  dad’s  line  of  sight,  and  saw  fuel  spilling  from  two bullet  holes  punched  in  the  helicopter’s  hull.  Then  she  understood  the change of plan. Ralph pulled back the trigger and the flare fired with a hot popping sound. It sizzled into life just as it hit the side of the chopper. The aviation  fuel  caught  light  immediately,  and  fire  rained  down.  With  a 
whoomf
  the  petrol  on  the  ground  ignited  too,  splashed  all  around  by  the sabretooth, and a wall of flames sprang up. Soldiers shouted as the inferno took hold around them, but the agonised roars of the big cats cut through Robyn’s  heart.  Her  whole  life  had  been  about  protecting  animals.  She sobbed at the pain the sabretooths were feeling, but their enemies had left them no other way to escape. Through the curtain of flame and smoke she saw  one  blazing  sabretooth  roll  in  the  mud  and  sand  to  extinguish  the flames,  while  another  ran  to  the  water.  The  third  took  down  one  of  the soldiers and tore into his struggling form in a frenzy, even as it burned. 


‘Robyn, get inside.’ Niko was helping her up. ‘You’re drenched in fuel. If one spark catches you …’


Without  warning,  the  helicopter  exploded.  A  crimson  fireball  bloomed from  clouds  of  thick  black  smoke,  engulfing  the  drones.  Grant  pushed Robyn into the back seat of the truck and Roland shouted, ‘Everyone in!’


Fiery debris clattered down around them as, with a harsh grinding of gears, the truck crawled forward once more, lurching wonkily with its flat tyre for the  treeline.  Robyn  lay  on  the  sticky  leather,  listening  as  the  sound  of crackling  flames  and  the  mournful  drawn-out  wail  of  a  sabretooth  finally faded into the distance. 


In his private office suite, Josef Gerhard stared at the flames flickering over his  3D  virtual  display  screens.  By  blinking  through  his  smart  glasses  he could  make  any  one  of  the  smaller  screens  go  supersized,  filling  the  wall with high-def images. But right now, there was nothing but fire. 


Through the now-stationary camera of one of the downed drones, Gerhard caught  the  shadow  of  a  sabretooth  limp  past,  dragging  a  soldier’s  mauled body.  It  was  a  bleak,  apocalyptic  image.  Interesting  that  the  big  cats  had shown  primitive  reasoning  in  their  efforts  to  dislodge  the  petrol  can  from their  brother’s  jaws;  an  unnatural  loyalty  to  their  kind  had  overcome  the expected instinct to kill. Perhaps predasaurs felt united by their difference from the native wildlife. That would certainly make them more formidable hunters – and more formidable prey. 


Gerhard froze the action with a blink and went back through the recorded footage to take a screenshot of the tiger with its haul of burnt flesh.  
Yes
, he thought. It would make a good cover for a future  
Predasaur
 game. No one would ever know it was taken from real life, just as no one suspected that the  
Predasaur
 cut-scenes were adapted from real murders. Gamers enjoyed realistic  violence,  and  Gerhard  was  a  firm  believer  in  giving  the  paying customer what they wanted. 


It  was  a  shame  the  drones  had  been  damaged  in  the  explosion.  An obliterated  helicopter  with  its  surviving  crew  being  subjugated  by sabretooths would make for an entertaining spectacle. And without eyes in the sky – or another predasaur with tracking chips like the cave lion finding the scent – he had no way to follow the Ballantynes. The idiots should’ve been  dead  ten  times  over  by  now,  yet  they  clung  on  to  their  miserable existence. 


 
Still
. 


Gerhard hurled his lead crystal glass at the floor, where it shattered into a thousand glittering shards, each reflecting the vivid flames displayed on the wall  of  screens.  It  was  as  though  glowing  embers  were  trapped  in  every speck, raging to break free. Gerhard forgot his anger, entranced as ever by the beauty that bloomed from violence and his own natural skill in creating it. 


A  gentle  alert  sounded  from  his  call  screen.  Gerhard  took  a  breath  and pulled his gaze away as he tapped the Accept key. For a moment he caught sight  of  his  reflection  in  the  glass  before  the  powerful  features  of  Julius Mbato filled the screen. 


There was no smile or word of greeting. ‘The strike was successful?’


‘No. The helicopter has been destroyed,’ Gerhard said simply. 


‘What?’ Mbato leaned forward angrily. ‘And the assault team?’


‘Half of them were burned alive, and more will become cat food. Judging by the drone footage, I don’t think there will be more than two survivors.’


The  heavy  line  of  Mbato’s  pursed  lips  ran  parallel  to  the  furrows  in  his forehead. ‘Each of those mercenaries was paid in advance,’ he hissed. ‘And I  had  to  pull  that  Oryx  from  scheduled  medevac  missions  in  Gauteng Province. Questions will be asked about why its crew detail was taken off roster.’


‘Surely,’  said  Gerhard,  ‘with  this  virus  spreading  through  the  population so rapidly, changes in air force personnel fit to fly are to be expected.’


‘ 
This
 virus?’ Mbato slammed his palm down against his desk. ‘It’s  
your
 virus. It’s spreading around the globe, turning into another pandemic, and the pathogen came from  
your
 predasaurs. Thanks to you, the only chance I have  of  winning  this  election  now  is  by  flattening  the  death  count  curve. 


You need to make a cure for me.’


‘I often wish there  
was
 a cure for you,’ Gerhard muttered. 


Mbato’s  eyes  narrowed.  ‘If  you  want  all  South  African  tech  firms  using computer chips engineered by Gerhard Industries – chips I know you’ll load with enough malware to open every system, cripple your competitors and expand your empire exponentially – you need me in power for a third term


…’


‘And  without  my  company’s  chips  inside  the  country’s  vote-counting machines to rig the results, you won’t get one.’ Gerhard smiled. ‘So we’re


both  still  useful  to  each  other.  My  scientists  are  making  good  progress developing  the  cure  at  the  secondary  complex.  I  predict  a  breakthrough soon –’


‘Soon?’  Mbato  broke  in.  ‘May  I  remind  you  that  the  elections  are  only three and a half months away!’


Gerhard felt irritated at Mbato’s lack of patience. He always looked for the quick fix when he should be planning more carefully instead. ‘Surely you can delay them, given the circumstances?’


‘My  critics  will  accuse  me  of  a  power  grab,’  said  Mbato,  frown  lines deepening  on  his  forehead.  ‘The  usual  dull  accusations  of  corruption  and excess.  And  if  Ballantyne  manages  to  send  that  evidence  of  me  hunting predasaurs in your game reserve to my competitors before we’ve prepared a plausible explanation …’


‘On  that  point,  at  least,  I  think  immediate  action  can  be  taken,’  Gerhard announced. ‘In times of terror, people need a focus for their frustration and fear – and I can give them one. As the virus goes on spreading, and as fresh lockdowns  bite,  let’s  see  to  it  that  Roland  Ballantyne  dominates  the headlines – for all the wrong reasons. We’ll have the entire world baying for his blood.’


‘Destroying Ballantyne’s reputation is no substitute for destroying the man himself,’ said Mbato. ‘We can’t let them slip off the radar again.’


‘They  were  heading  north-east  –  hoping  to  lose  us  in  the  mountains, perhaps.’  Gerhard  smiled.  ‘But  that  territory  holds  secrets  known  only  to me … and it has hidden dangers that I can exploit.’


Mbato looked thoughtful. ‘I know the area too. We fought there together, Roland, Xai and I, just before I was forced to leave the Recces.’ A smile curled about his lips. ‘I believe I can call upon some local assistance to help with our cause.’


Gerhard raised an eyebrow. ‘Oh, yes? What sort of “local assistance”?’


‘You’ll see,’ said Mbato. ‘You’re too busy looking to the future, Gerhard. 


You neglect your past.’


‘Meaning?’


Mbato  smiled.  ‘The  strength  of  a  successful  leader  is  forged  in  youth  –


and in a crisis, that strength can be called upon.’


‘Is that a fact?’ Gerhard purred. ‘Well, then, by all means, summon your assets  from  the  past.  The  more  the  merrier.  Let  our  traps  close  around Ballantyne and his clan – and crush them all.’




5


In  the  truck,  the  atmosphere  was  tense.  Grant  had  his  eyes  closed, pretending  to  sleep.  In  truth,  he  was  so  exhausted  he  longed  for  sweet oblivion, but the eyes of the predasaurs burned on in his memory. 


Roland and Xai had fixed up the shot-out tyre with the remaining jack as best  they  could  in  a  remarkably  short  time.  The  tyre  pump  had  been  lost when the tailgate broke open, but that didn’t stop them. While Xai dug out resin  from  an  acacia  tree,  which  he  used  to  seal  the  puncture  in  the  tyre, Roland rigged two Schrader chucks onto a siphon hose. By connecting one end of the hose to the flat tyre and the other to the pumped-up tyre at the front,  the  pressure  equalised,  leaving  both  tyres  with  just  enough  air  to function. 


Niko  and  Ralph  had  gone  foraging  for  food,  and  found  the  scavenged remains  of  an  eland  antelope  –  enough  to  butcher  for  rations,  at  least. 


Robyn and Grant took an inventory of the kit they had left. It wasn’t a long list. Grant gave Roland the bad news. Roland only grunted in response. 


‘Thanks,’  said  Xai,  and  Grant  imagined  his  smile  was  meant  to  be reassuring. It wasn’t. 


Grant  wandered  off  back  to  Robyn,  sitting  now  in  the  shade  of  a  tree. 


‘Your dad’s mad as hell. You’d think he’d be grateful for what you did.’


‘Yeah,  well.  Dad  doesn’t  approve  of  me  having  a  mind  of  my  own.’


Robyn wiped angrily at her eyes. ‘But I guess he has a point. I led Ralph


and  Luke  into  Gerhard’s  reserve,  even  though  they  didn’t  want  to  come. 


And Luke never came out, did he?’


Grant groped around for something comforting to say. But he had nothing. 


He kept quiet. 


The repairs took less than an hour, then it was back on board the truck for the  next  stage  of  the  journey.  With  their  position  exposed,  stealth  was  no longer possible. They had to hope that Xai’s people were out there, and they would offer shelter and help. 


The truck rumbled along a narrow stretch of rocky hillside, hemmed in on either side by euphorbias creating a rim around the skyline. The trees, with their  inverted  umbrella-like  crowns  of  branches,  looked  like  eerie prehistoric  sentries,  barring  them  from  the  cover  of  the  wider  forest.  It wasn’t  just  the  damaged  tyre  that  was  making  the  truck  ride  so uncomfortable  either;  Roland  was  still  giving  Grant  and  Robyn  the  silent treatment. 


Grant knew what it was like to have a father who gave his all to a cause. 


As  leader  of  the  Green  Freedom  Party,  Max  Khumalo  demanded  loyalty from  all  around  him,  family  included.  No  –  family  especially.  For  Grant, that had been way easier in his younger days. His mum had died when he’d been just a baby, which had driven his dad deeper into his political work. 


Grant remembered him as a kind presence, but a distant one. Schooled and cared for by a succession of nannies, Grant had learned that the surest way to  get  his  dad’s  attention  was  to  excel  in  class  or  to  take  an  interest  in ecological  matters,  and  so  for  years  he  had  done  both.  But  then,  having developed  an  enquiring  mind,  Grant  felt  compelled  to  experiment  –  and found  he  got  a  lot  more  attention  from  his  dad  (even  if  it  was  negative attention) when he signed up for the Winter School for Young Hunters and attended  shooting  competitions.  It  had  felt  good  to  think  that  his  actions could still have an effect on the old man. 


He  opened  his  eyes  and  looked  at  Robyn.  Her  head  rested  against  the window. Tentatively, he tapped her hands. She jumped, looked at him like a startled okapi. 


‘Sorry,’ he said quickly. ‘I just wanted to say … thanks. You know. Back there.’


Robyn shifted uncomfortably. ‘Don’t mention it.’


‘Yes,’ Roland said curtly. ‘Don’t mention it.’


Grant  frowned.  ‘Why  are  you  angry,  Mr  Ballantyne?  We  wouldn’t  have got away without Robyn.’


‘I  gave  you  an  instruction.’  Roland’s  voice  was  quiet,  which  was somehow  way  scarier  than  if  he’d  been  shouting.  ‘Robyn  disobeyed,  and jeopardised both your lives.’


‘This isn’t the army, Dad,’ Robyn said hotly. ‘I’m too old to follow your orders blindly.’


‘Speaking of blind,’ Ralph broke in, trying to change the subject, ‘we still haven’t seen any sign of your people, Xai.’


‘The Bakho,’ Xai said. ‘That is the name of my people.’


‘You  said  you  didn’t  know  the  name  of  the  tribe  that  lived  here,’  said Robyn, taken aback. 


‘The elders did not wish our name to be known,’ Xai explained, ‘in case that too was taken from us by those in power.’ He paused. ‘The Bakho lived in harmony with these lands – until the mining corporations moved in. Now the  landscape  has  changed  beyond  all  recognition,  and  I  fear  the  Bakho have moved on. That is why our search has been unsuccessful.’


‘Because Mbato’s government decided that metals beneath the earth were more  important  than  those  who  lived  off  it,’  Niko  added,  frowning. 


‘Relocated most of them to shanty towns on city fringes. Changed their way of life.’


‘The Green Freedom Party pledges to overturn those rulings,’ Grant said firmly. ‘We’ll put things right. The people will return.’


Xai  smiled  sadly.  ‘It’s  too  late,  my  friend.  The  mining  companies  have ripped  the  heart  from  our  homelands.  There’s  nowhere  for  the  people  to return  
to
. Yet I still hope that we may find isolated groups clinging to the old ways. Living carefully, secretly.’


Robyn took a deep breath. ‘Like us.’


‘Doing what they must,’ Xai agreed, looking between Roland and Robyn. 


‘Finding new ways to get along.’


In the rear-view mirror, Grant saw Roland catch Robyn’s eye. She smiled just a little, and Roland smiled back. Xai nodded, apparently contented. 


The truck rumbled on, picking up speed as they moved out of the forest and back towards the dry riverbed that they had originally been following. 


‘Why aren’t we staying under cover?’ asked Grant in surprise. ‘Surely the forest will give us a far better chance of staying hidden.’


‘The trees are also hiding us from the sun,’ said Xai. ‘Now that we’ve lost our  fuel  supply,  we  need  to  make  sure  we  keep  the  truck’s  solar  batteries topped up.’


There was no accusation or reproach in Xai’s voice regarding the loss of the fuel. It was merely a statement of fact. Grant knew that the truck’s V8


400hp  diesel  combustion  engine  was  backed  up  by  two  powerful  electric motors.  The  batteries  that  ran  them  were  charged  either  when  the  diesel engine was being used, or via the solar panels on the cab roof. 


‘In any case,’ Xai added. ‘We have to cross the valley sooner or later.’ He pointed  towards  a  distinctive  rocky  outcrop  shaped  like  a  bird’s  head silhouetted against the sky on the mountainous ridge across from them. ‘I recognise that peak. It marks the start of an old poachers’ trail.’


‘It’s where we saw action all those years ago,’ Roland said. ‘With luck it should still be passable.’


‘And from there I stand a better chance of finding the way to some of the old settlements,’ Xai added. 


‘Perhaps  we’ll  find  a  clue  to  where  the  people  went,’  said  Grant,  ‘if nothing else.’


Once  they  had  crossed  the  riverbed  and  started  to  climb,  the  terrain quickly began to change. Trees started to become more and more scarce and the  lush  grasses  of  the  valley  gave  way  to  thorn  thickets  and  scrub.  The track they were following became far more rugged too, littered with rocks and  boulders  that  had  rolled  down  the  slopes  from  the  jagged  outcrops above. As the sun started to edge lower in the sky, their progress slowed to little  more  than  a  crawl.  The  mountainside  on  one  side  of  the  track  was getting steeper by the minute, and the drop on the other even more so. 


When it was dark, Roland parked; they couldn’t afford to wear down the battery by using the headlights. Xai found a small clearing and Grant helped him build a fire. Ralph and Niko put together a spit over which they roasted gristly strips of antelope, which Robyn had cut from the carcass with Xai’s pocketknife. While they worked, Roland napped in the truck. 


‘Wish I could sleep on command like that,’ Grant remarked. 


‘You  learn  to,  on  covert  operations,’  Xai  told  him.  ‘Got  to  stay  alert. 


Fresh.’  He  sniffed  his  own  armpit  dubiously.  ‘Mentally,  if  not  physically. 


Being out here again … it takes me back to those days.’


‘When you were with Special Forces?’ Ralph asked. 


Xai nodded sombrely. ‘Our unit was based out of Phalaborwa.’


‘Back then, Mbato fought with you,’ said Robyn, joining in with the story. 


‘Not against you.’


‘Our great president was in your unit?’ Grant was surprised. ‘As well as that guy you heard on the radio – Yonker?’


‘That’s right,’ said Roland quietly from the truck. 


‘What happened?’ Grant asked. 


‘If it’s the story I think it is,’ said Robyn, ‘then Angel Abrafo happened.’


‘Abrafo,’ Ralph echoed in a theatrical whisper, picking the last meat from the blackened skin of the antelope. 


‘I’d like to hear this story,’ Grant said. 


‘I’m not sure you would.’ Roland stepped out of the truck, stretched and sat down beside the dying fire. ‘But all right. I’ll tell it to you.’




6


‘It’s almost twenty years since Xai and I were here last,’ Roland said. ‘Our brigade was assigned to capture a high-value target – Angel Abrafo, head of a  notoriously  vicious  gang  of  poachers  and  animal  traffickers  who  took high-risk, high-reward jobs for wealthy clients.’


Xai  nodded.  ‘Abrafo’s  lot  had  no  hesitation  about  killing  anyone  who proved an obstacle – rangers, local villagers, even children. They’d caught dozens  of  rare  species  and  shipped  them  out  of  the  country  to  be  trophy pets.  And  they’d  killed  scores  of  rhinos  for  their  horns  and  elephants  for their ivory.’


Roland  took  up  the  litany  of  crimes.  ‘On  one  occasion  they  stole  into  a protected reserve at the foot of the Klein Drakensberg with a commission to take the ivory from seventeen bulls. They didn’t realise that the elephants’


tusks had already been removed for their protection, so there was nothing of value left to take. Abrafo and his gang chose to slaughter the elephants and take their ears back to their paymaster to prove they did the job and were entitled to be paid for it, ivory or no ivory.’


‘Scum,’ Robyn muttered. 


‘And  they  operated  here  in  the  mountains?’  Grant  asked,  looking  all around with a shiver. 


‘Yes.  Sifting  through  reported  sightings  by  locals,  we  determined  the likely location of Abrafo’s base as somewhere on Mount Mananga,’ Roland said. ‘So we set off on a loaded march for forty-three miles through tropical


forest and savannah. I felt we stood a good chance of locating our targets before they could move against us.’


‘Mbato marched behind me,’ Xai recalled. ‘He was the odd one out in our unit. Quiet, didn’t joke much with the rest of us. But there’s no denying he was an expert shot, particularly at long range.’


Roland  nodded.  ‘Whenever  I  needed  a  sniper,  Mbato  was  my  go-to.  He outranked  me  –  he’d  climbed  to  warrant  officer,  whereas  I  was  only  a sergeant  –  but  in  the  Special  Forces  it’s  a  man’s  mission  experience  that gets him command.’


‘So, he was above you on paper but in the brigade you called the shots,’


Niko reasoned. 


‘Interesting,’ said Grant. ‘I’m not saying that Mbato running for president, the biggest guy in charge, was him massively over-compensating, but …’


‘You’d be right,’ Ralph agreed and they grinned at each other. 


‘Anyway.’ Roland sipped a capful of water from the caddy about his neck. 


‘There  we  were,  moving  through  a  ravine,  thinking  we  could  use  the  tree cover  to  get  to  our  next  vantage  point  and  overlook  Abrafo’s  camp.  But somehow  Abrafo  knew  we  were  coming.  His  men  were  waiting  for  us, hidden  among  the  ironwood  and  ebony  trees.  They  opened  fire  without warning. I’m only here now because Xai dragged me down into the cover of the understorey.’


Xai  looked  into  the  darkness,  the  fire  reflected  in  his  eyes.  ‘Three  of  us were  cut  down  in  the  ambush  –  Yonker,  Gazi  and  Mbato.  I  saw  Gazi  get shot, and his lifeless body fall to the ground.’


Grant broke in, puzzled. ‘Yonker and Mbato?’ But Robyn shook her head at him, and he swallowed the interruption. 


‘Two more, Simmons and Antony, made it back along the ravine. But the poachers followed Xai and me.’ Roland looked into the dying fire. ‘I took down one of them and Xai shot two more before we reached the shelter of the  ironwoods.  They  came  after  us.  I  couldn’t  even  call  for  back-up;  my radio had taken a bullet in the ambush. But we smeared our bodies in mud to  deaden  our  scent  and  hid  out  up  a  tree,  in  the  thick  leafy  branches. 


Eventually the poachers gave up looking for us.’


‘Abrafo’s  men  must  have  thought  us  weakened,  diminished,  no  real threat,’  Xai  said.  ‘As  poachers,  they  should’ve  known  –  never


underestimate  your  prey.  Even  a  wounded  buffalo  will  circle  back  on  its pursuers and strike without warning.’


‘Once  we’d  tracked  Abrafo’s  men  back  to  their  camp  higher  in  the mountains, we watched and waited from a vantage point in the rocks,’ said Roland.  ‘And  then  Antony  and  Simmons  were  dragged  in.  They’d  been captured.’


He paused. Grant looked around the campfire. Niko was held rapt by the story,  while  Ralph  and  Robyn  looked  solemn.  They’d  heard  the  story before, of course. They knew what was coming. 


‘Abrafo  wanted  to  know  who’d  informed  on  him,  who  had  made  it possible  for  the  Special  Forces  to  find  him,’  said  Xai.  ‘Simmons  and Antony wouldn’t say. So he told them he had an informant of his own in the Recces,  and  that  he  needed  to  teach  our  commanding  officer  a  lesson  for daring to send troops after him.’


‘And  with  that  Abrafo  shot  them,  at  close  range  in  cold  blood,’  said Roland softly. ‘Men I’d loved as brothers – murdered right in front of my eyes. I reached for my gun, hot for revenge. Ready to put down Abrafo. But Xai stopped me.’


‘Good for Xai,’ said Niko in a low voice. 


‘The  camp  was  too  heavily  guarded  for  us  to  do  anything  on  our  own,’


said Xai dully. ‘We’d be throwing our lives after our friends’. What kind of vengeance is that?’


‘The little rogue was right, of course. And we knew where Abrafo kept his base now. We could launch an aerial strike. Take out Abrafo’s entire gang. 


End him for good, even if that meant missing out on the intel we’d get from interrogations.’


‘Exhausted as we were, it still only took us forty hours to get back to base camp,’ Xai remembered. ‘There we found out that Mbato had survived after all and beaten us back. He looked shaken to see us, for a moment – almost afraid,  as  though  we  were  ghosts  –  and  then  he  recovered  and  was  all smiles.’


‘He claimed he’d faked being hit by the bullets to trick the poachers. Then he’d managed to crawl away to cover. Thinking we were all dead, he made his  way  back  to  the  nearest  town.’  Roland  took  another  sip  of  water.  ‘I asked,  did  he  know  what  happened  to  Antony  and  Simmons?  He  told  me


they’d been killed in the initial ambush with the others, and he’d gone back and checked their bodies. And he said he’d overheard a hunting party say they’d bagged Xai and me. 


‘Of course, we called him out on this in front of our commanding officer. 


Antony and Simmons were still alive when he claimed to have found their bodies.  But  Mbato  stuck  by  his  story.  Just  said  in  the  confusion  he  must have taken Yonker and Gazi for Antony and Simmons. I said that was bull. 


Abrafo knew we were coming, because Mbato must have tipped him off. It was the only explanation: he’d sold out his regiment for blood money from South  Africa’s  most  notorious  poachers.’  Xai  shrugged.  ‘He  denied  it,  of course.’


Roland nodded slowly. ‘An airborne operation was already under way to hit back at Abrafo, but it was too late. He’d gone to ground, ready to do his filthy work elsewhere. We took Gazi, Simmons and Antony back home, but at least it wasn’t too late for Henrick Yonker. We found him, barely alive. 


Badly wounded, but he’d managed to get away too.’


‘Yonker  was  never  the  same  again.’  Xai  shook  his  head.  ‘He  quit soldiering not long after that. We lost touch.’


‘The  whole  brigade  was  torn  apart,’  said  Roland.  ‘And  there  wasn’t enough  evidence  to  bring  Mbato  to  court  martial,  so  the  whole  thing  was hushed up and he left the service. Xai and I retired the following year to set up Crocodile Lodge …’


‘And it was around then that I saw Mbato in a bar surrounded by cronies,’


said Xai. ‘Drinking the kind of champagne that went nicely with the flashy Mercedes parked outside.’


‘Blood money from Abrafo,’ Ralph muttered, ‘for ratting you out.’


Roland nodded. ‘And that money must have bought Mbato some powerful friends, because the next time I saw him was five years later, on the news, climbing the political ladder with the African National Alliance.’


‘He got massive campaign donations from Josef Gerhard, in exchange for special  “favours”  when  he  reached  office.’  Grant  remembered  his  dad talking  on  the  subject.  ‘Such  as  buying  two  thousand  square  miles  of  the Kruger  National  Park  from  the  government,  dirt  cheap,  so  Gerhard  could have his own luxury hunting grounds.’


‘And a base for his sick experiments,’ Robyn added. 


‘Well, that’s what we’ve got to prove to the outside world,’ Roland said. 


‘When we get there.’ He stood up and kicked dirt over the last embers of the fire, leaving a weak moon as the only light. ‘In the meantime, we should all try to rest up.’


‘There  could  be  more  predasaurs,’  Robyn  murmured.  ‘Out  there  in  the dark.’


‘I’ll take first watch,’ Ralph said. 


‘Four  hours,  then  I’ll  take  over  till  dawn,’  said  Xai.  Everyone  nodded. 


Roland and Xai climbed into the front of the truck while Niko clambered heavily into the back, looking dead on her feet. She left the door open, then looked back at Grant and Robyn. With a small smile, she pulled the door shut. 


Grant rose, stiff from sitting on the hard earth, and offered Robyn a hand to help her up. She raised an eyebrow as if to say, ‘Really?’ and got to her feet by herself. Then she shook his hand jokily. ‘Hi, I’m Robyn,’ she said quietly. ‘I’ll be your fellow insomniac in the stinky truck of doom.’


‘Pleased  to  meet  you,’  he  whispered  back.  ‘At  least  while  you’re  wide awake you won’t snore.’


Robyn frowned. ‘I don’t snore!’


‘You’re like a warthog with asthma,’ Grant informed her. 


‘Well, you smell like one,’ Robyn countered. She tugged on his shirt, the ghost of a smile on her lips. Strands of hair blew across her face in the night breeze. Her face looked softer than he’d seen it before. 


‘I’ve heard that when things are like this …’ she said quietly. ‘You know, dangerous, intense, each-minute-could-be-our-last kind of stuff …’


Grant  looked  into  her  eyes.  ‘Adrenaline  through  the  roof,  that  sort  of thing?’


‘Right.  I’ve  heard  that  can  sort  of  affect  your  feelings  and  …’  She grimaced.  ‘I  dunno.  I’m  good  with  understanding  animals,  but  people? 


Ugh.’


‘I reckon a lot of people don’t even understand themselves,’ Grant found himself  saying.  ‘Especially  when  there’s  so  much  going  on  and  no  time apart and …’


‘Yeah.’ Robyn seemed to shake herself awake. ‘I guess you’re right.’


‘Or  not!’  Grant  cringed  inside.  He’d  been  trying  to  sympathise,  but  felt somehow as if he’d just shoved Robyn away. ‘I mean, people should, you know, definitely think about … stuff.’


Robyn nodded and turned to the truck. ‘Yeah. Night, Grant.’


‘Um, right. Night. Night!’ He groaned out loud as Robyn climbed into the back seat beside Niko.  
Smooth, Grant
, he thought, as he got in beside her and closed his eyes.  
Real smooth
. 


Robyn listened to Grant’s breathing, trying to work out if he’d given in to sleep. Then she heard him swallow and shift. She was glad she wasn’t the only one replaying the conversation and peeking through her fingers at the different directions it might have led. 


 
You’re crazy
,  she  told  herself.  
Feelings only complicate things. Stop you
 
thinking straight. Tomorrow we could all be dead
. 


Was it wrong to want to clutch at any chance to be happy? 


As  the  night  animals  croaked  and  chirruped,  Robyn  fell  into  troubled dreams  about  running  through  a  maze  of  dark  corridors.  She  kept  finding belongings  from  her  bedroom  at  the  lodge  scattered  around,  like  a  trail leading  her  to  something  unknown,  something  that  scared  her  more  and more the closer she came to finding it. 


She never did. Instead, the rattle of gunfire made her burst awake in the muddy light of dawn. The truck was rocking gently, as if they were moving, yet the engines were dead. A hissing noise, like air escaping in a rush, made Robyn fear that the tyres had been holed. But the sound was shifting about, and a shout carried over it. Xai’s voice – he must be outside on sentry duty, which meant that Ralph must be in the passenger seat …


 
‘It’s got you! It’s right around the truck!’


Ralph,  Grant,  Dad,  Niko  were  all  suddenly  awake,  staring  around  in confusion.  The  windscreen  was  covered  with  what  looked  like  a  sheet  of textured fabric – leather or rubber of some kind. It was only when Robyn looked closer that she saw the fabric moving, flexing,  
undulating …


‘What  
is
 that?’ gasped Niko from beside her. 


Ralph jumped back from the front passenger window as something thick and  heavy  slapped  against  the  glass.  Red  eyes  in  a  huge,  serpentine  head glared  in,  unblinking,  as  the  truck  rocked  harder.  With  a  shock  of  horrid


clarity,  Robyn  realised  that  the  ‘fabric’  on  the  windscreen  was  in  fact  the pale,  ribbed  hide  of  some  enormous  reptile,  whose  body  was  wrapped tightly around the truck. 


‘Snake!’ Xai screamed, opening fire again. ‘It’s a giant monster snake!’




7


Ralph felt frozen inside – not just with horror but with sheer disgust. He’d played all the versions of  
Predasaur
 and knew at once what this thing had to be – not just a giant snake but a titanoboa, a hideously large killer from Earth’s prehistory. Fifteen metres long and weighing more than a ton, it was a  recurring  big  bad  in   
Predasaur
  boss  levels.  Ralph  relived  in  a  rush  so many  gory  scenes  he’d  played,  believing  them  to  be  animation.  Now  he knew the truth – that Gerhard enhanced real footage of his monsters killing people  that  he  and  Mbato  considered  their  enemies,  selling  slaughter  as entertainment.  Ralph  wondered  if  drones  were  filming  the  super-snake winding itself around the truck right now, ready to crush it like a tin can to reach the prey trapped inside. 


Roland had managed to lower the passenger side window enough to get an arm  out  and  had  opened  fire  with  the  revolver,  but  the  bullets  seemed  to have no impact on the creature’s flesh. 


‘That thing’s head is on the left of the truck!’ he shouted. ‘Try to get out on the right.’


‘It’s jammed,’ Grant shouted as he kicked furiously at the door. 


Ralph kicked and hammered at his own door. It was no good. Instead, the titanoboa seemed to squeeze harder and the door began to crumple inward. 


Ralph glimpsed a flash of movement past the bulk of the beast. 


It  was  Xai.  He  charged  boldly  up  to  the  titanoboa,  shouting  wildly,  and clubbed it repeatedly with his rifle; had to be out of ammo, thought Ralph. 


There was a hiss that sounded like a million cans of Coke opening and, with a spasm of rippling flesh, an obscenely thick tail struck Xai and he was sent tumbling into the brush. 


‘Xai!’ Roland shouted. 


At  the  same  time,  the  creature  slackened  its  vice-like  grip  on  the  cab, shifting  position  in  the  murky  dawn  light.  Roland  switched  on  the  truck’s headlights. Ralph gave a gasp of horror as he got a better look at the thing they were up against. Its tubular, diamond-patterned body was thicker than a barrel and its blunt, arrow-shaped head was the size of an oil drum. The titanoboa  let  out  another  hiss  of  anger,  opening  its  mouth  to  reveal  long fangs.  As  its  mouth  opened,  Ralph  could  see  its  quivering  pink  gullet.  A thin  black  vertical  pupil  slashed  through  each  blazing  red  eye.  The  snake reared back …


Then struck. 


Ralph  threw  himself  to  one  side  as  the  scaly  head  smashed  through  the front of the truck, buckling metal and shattering the windscreen, showering everyone inside with glass. Niko shrieked and slid down in her seat, trying to stay out of the predasaur’s reach. Meanwhile, Roland attempted to aim the revolver at the snake’s eye, but the monstrous head was thrashing to and fro and he couldn’t get the shot. Robyn pushed both legs between the front seats and tried to kick at the titanoboa, beating at the scaly bulk of its head as  if  hoping  to  drive  it  out  of  the  truck.  The  snake  lunged  at  her,  jaws widening, and Roland launched himself at its head. Gripping the inside of the snake’s mouth between its fangs, he struggled to hold apart the beast’s upper and lower jaws so it couldn’t bite. 


‘Shoot  it,’  he  grunted,  shaking  with  the  strain.  ‘Weak  point,  down  the throa—’


But that weak point flexed and twisted back. Ralph screamed, and so did everyone else in the truck, as the titanoboa wrenched Roland out of his seat and flung him through the air like a doll. He hit the ground and rolled head over heels through the undergrowth. 


Robyn cried out. At first Ralph thought she was crying for their father, but then  he  saw  that  she  had  snatched  back  her  leg;  a  deep  bloody  gash  ran through the flesh. But there was no time to help her. The snake had pushed its great head inside the truck again, probing the air with its thick, rubbery


tongue, eyes like red searchlights zeroing in on its prey. Grant grabbed the other  rifle  and  struck  the  snake  in  the  face  with  the  stock,  while  Niko clambered  into  the  front  seat  and  slashed  and  stabbed  at  its  eyes  with  a broken  windscreen  wiper.  Maddened  with  pain  and  bloodlust,  the  snake began to twist and turn wildly, and a jagged ivory fang got hooked through the steering wheel and jammed there. The predasaur strained to get free, but only managed to twist the entire steering column upward. Now it couldn’t push  forward  into  or  withdraw  from  the  truck,  further  hampered  by  the jagged  glass  edges  of  the  shattered  windscreen  slicing  against  the  thick flesh of its neck. 


‘Quickly!’ Ralph yelled. ‘While it’s stuck, everyone out now.’


Grant  forced  open  the  rear  passenger  door  and  scrambled  over  the serpent’s body. Niko managed to clamber out through the driver’s window, and Grant helped pull her through while Ralph tried to manoeuvre Robyn outside. 


‘Dad,’ she said. ‘Where’s Dad? And Xai?’


Ralph  shook  his  head  helplessly.  ‘I  don’t  know,  I  didn’t  see.’  As  he worked  out  how  best  to  help  Robyn,  he  winced  at  her  bloody  wound. 


‘How’s your leg?’


‘Hurts like hell,’ she said through gritted teeth. ‘That thing must’ve bitten me.’


‘It’s more likely broken glass,’ Ralph told her, and prayed it was true. He couldn’t think of a constrictor that was venomous in the natural world, but the dark vertical pupils were a feature of venomous snakes; it would be just like Gerhard to make his monster even deadlier than the original. ‘Anyway. 


Whatever got you, we need to stop the bleeding …’ He struggled to support her  as  he  stumbled  outside,  then  he  gasped  as  something  grabbed  hold  of his arm. 


Spinning around, Ralph found with relief that it was only Xai, sporting a swollen,  bloody  bump  on  his  forehead.  With  Xai’s  help,  Ralph  guided Robyn away from the thrashing bulk of the snake with calm precision. 


The  truck  rocked  harder  as  the  titanoboa  struggled  to  free  itself.  Niko broke free of Grant’s steadying hold and ran to Xai. 


‘Where’s  Roland?’  she  asked.  ‘That  fall  he  took  …  He  could  be unconscious, or maybe he broke something …’


‘We’ll find him. I’m sure he’ll be fine,’ Xai promised. 


‘Will  Robyn  be?’  Ralph  murmured,  as  he  and  Xai  propped  his  sister  up between them. 


Niko steadied her breathing and bent to inspect Robyn’s leg. ‘It’s a deep gash.’ She jumped as the truck beside her was dragged a whole metre away from them through the mud as the titanoboa redoubled its efforts. ‘Damn it, the first aid kit’s in there!’


‘ 
Everything’s
 in there,’ Ralph groaned. 


‘We’ll carry you to higher ground, Rob,’ Grant said, taking her feet as Xai took her shoulders. ‘Get you somewhere safe so Niko can check you over properly.’


Ralph felt a flash of resentment at the older boy trying to take charge of his sister. But he knew Grant was right. He hurried along beside them with Niko, scrambling up the rise and past thorny brambles, out of sight of the giant  serpent.  Carefully,  Grant  and  Xai  placed  Robyn  down  in  some  long grass. 


‘Niko,’  Xai  said,  producing  a  roll  of  bandage  and  a  pack  of  adhesive plastic strips from the pocket of his field vest. ‘I have DermaClips to close the wound, but should we apply a tourniquet first to stop the bleeding?’


‘Yes,  definitely.’  Niko  took  the  bandage  and  wrapped  it  around  Robyn’s thigh, about five centimetres above her knee. 


Xai passed her the plastic strips. ‘You’ve used these field stitches before?’


Niko nodded and her eyes focused for the first time since the snake attack. 


‘Place over the wound, pull to join the skin and clip off the tabs.’


Ralph knew what Xai was doing: he could easily have applied the first aid himself,  but  he  was  trying  to  keep  everyone  occupied  with  their  own mission. To stop them going into shock or fearing the worst for Roland. 


‘Ralph,’ Xai said. ‘Find a stick for Niko to use as a windlass to tighten the bandage –’


‘Grant can do that,’ Ralph said. ‘I’m gonna help you find Dad.’


Xai  looked  about  to  argue,  but  then  there  was  a  rattle  of  gunfire  from further down the slope, beyond the truck. 


Grant froze, staring at Xai in alarm. ‘Is  
that
 Roland?’


‘That  was  an  automatic  weapon,’  Ralph  said,  gulping.  ‘Dad  only  had  a pistol.’


Niko looked up frantically. ‘There must be someone else down there!’


Further  gunfire  barked  its  idiot  song.  With  a  chill,  Ralph  realised  it  was coming from more than one weapon. 


‘More of Mbato and Gerhard’s little helpers?’ Ralph hissed. 


With  a  screech  of  tearing  metal  and  the  crash  of  breaking  glass,  the titanoboa finally pulled itself free of the truck. In a fluid, sinuous movement it reared up into the brooding sky, and through the brambles Ralph caught his  first  proper  look  at  the  beast  in  its  entirety.  It  was  a  terrifying  sight, nearly ten metres longer than he had estimated. Its eyes blazed with primal hatred as it turned and slithered away down the slope, rivulets of dark blood leaking from cuts in the diamonded hide below its jaw. 


‘What is that thing doing here?’ Ralph whispered. ‘You don’t hunt snakes. 


Not even enormous ones like that.’


‘If it was reared to be hunted, it wouldn’t be bulletproof,’ Xai pointed out. 


Ralph nodded. ‘Then Gerhard made it for some other reason.’


More automatic weapons rattled into life. 


‘Let’s take a look at what’s happening,’ Xai said. ‘Carefully.’


Ralph  followed  as  Xai  set  off  stealthily,  climbing  up  the  hillside.  The morning sky was dark with clouds rimmed with sun fire, even as fat drops of rain started to spatter around them. Although he was careful, Ralph was painfully conscious of the loose rocks and stones he dislodged beneath his feet as he climbed. He prayed that the noise that they made as they clattered down the rockface would be drowned out by the sound of gunfire and the angry hissing of the titanoboa. As they crested the hill, Xai held a finger to his  lips.  Moving  as  silently  as  he  could,  Ralph  crept  forward  to  join  him. 


Brushing the wet hair from his eyes, he found himself looking down into a valley  that  branched  off  the  main  trail,  its  entrance  blocked  by  boulders. 


Behind the boulders, at least six men were firing as the enormous serpent slithered towards them. 


‘No uniforms,’ Ralph noted. ‘Can’t be army …’ Then his jaw tightened as he looked beyond the boulders and noticed a figure lying prone in the back of a truck even more battered than their own, parked between a couple of


Land  Rovers.  A  man  with  a  bruised  and  bloodied  face,  his  hands  zip-tied behind his back. 


‘Dad,’ he breathed. 




8


‘Roland’s down,’ Xai muttered. ‘They must have found him when he was thrown down the hillside …’


The  titanoboa  lunged,  cobra-fast,  towards  its  tormentors.  The  men  fell back, but one was too slow. The terrifying serpent clamped its jaws around the man’s torso, its fangs biting deep into his flesh. Screaming in agony, the man  was  lifted  high  into  the  air.  With  a  flick  of  its  head,  the  snake swallowed  him  whole.  To  his  horror,  Ralph  could  see  the  writhing, struggling  shape  of  the  man  caught  in  the  snake’s  throat.  For  the  briefest moment  he  thought  he  could  hear  muffled  screams,  before  the  sound  of gunfire drowned out all else. 


‘Fall  back!’  The  hoarse  order  rang  out.  The  men  jumped  into  their vehicles,  which  roared  into  life.  A  man  in  a  denim  shirt  and  a  bandana crouched over Roland’s body. 


Panic clutched at Ralph’s chest. ‘They’re taking Dad.’


‘Regroup at Boulder Pass!’ Bandana Man shouted. ‘We’ll send someone for Rontane and Tharn when they’ve got the rest of them!’


Dread trickled through Ralph’s thoughts like the raindrops down his back. 


 
Got the rest of them? 


But Xai’s reaction was stronger; he actually flinched. ‘Kali Rontane,’ he said. ‘The so-called Queen of the Poachers.’


‘You know her?’


‘By  reputation.  Came  up  through  Angel  Abrafo’s  gang.  Soft  as  a rattlesnake.  Twice  as  deadly.’  Xai  watched  intently  as  the  pickup  and  the Land Rovers jerked away from the line of boulders, slipping in the wet mud as they reversed over the rough terrain. Ralph braced himself, waiting for the titanoboa to slide over the boulders and pursue its prey. But it didn’t. It stared  after  them,  swaying  from  side  to  side.  Then  it  turned  and  moved away, its bulk churning through the wet mud as the rain fell harder. 


‘All  right,  come  on.’  Xai  started  to  walk  away.  ‘We  have  to  get  back  to Niko, Robyn and Grant. If Rontane’s after us …’


‘But  those  guys  must  be  poachers,  not  soldiers,’  Ralph  said.  ‘They wouldn’t work for Gerhard?’


‘Mbato has ties to poachers in the region, remember? And Kali Rontane is as  brutal  and  ruthless  as  her  old  boss.’  Xai  spat  in  the  grass.  ‘Her  and Abrafo  are  outsiders  even  within  their  own  sick  community.  They’re capable of anything.’


Ralph nodded. He knew the grim statistics: that on average forty elephants each  day  were  murdered  for  their  ivory.  The  money  from  the  illicit  ivory trade was a source of funding for organised crime, and it made ten billion dollars a year. 


‘Do you know the pass they were talking about?’ Ralph asked. 


‘I think so. We can track the tyre marks they’ve left, in any case.’ Xai’s face  was  creased  with  worry.  ‘So  long  as  the  truck  isn’t  too  badly damaged.’


‘We have one rifle left,’ Ralph said, ‘and we’re practically out of ammo. 


But at least the titanoboa’s gone.’


They climbed quickly back down the slope, making for the little clearing where they’d left Niko, Grant and Robyn. But then a woman’s voice rang out from lower down the hillside. ‘Xai! Xai?’


Ralph  froze  instinctively,  and  Xai  immediately  dropped,  dragging  Ralph with him. 


‘I know that you and the Ballantyne boy are out there, little rogue. Come on out …’


Ralph sensed Xai stiffen at her mocking use of his old military nickname. 


‘She knows you.’


‘She’s  been  briefed,’  Xai  murmured,  and  slithered  silently  towards  an overhanging ledge edged with knobthorn. 


Ralph crawled after him. Through the thorny barrier he could see Robyn on  the  grass,  her  bloodied  leg  stitched  up,  Grant  crouched  protectively beside her.  Then  he  spied  a  stranger:  a  man  in  a  black  T-shirt  and  shorts, cradling a high-calibre hunting rifle with a silencer in his arms, stood over them. That had to be Tharn. A few metres away Ralph saw a tough-looking woman in a green vest, camo jacket and a baseball cap. That could only be Rontane. A similar rifle was slung across her chest and an ammo belt hung around her waist – and she had a pistol placed to Niko’s temple. 


‘Your  freak  of  a  serpent  killed  one  of  my  men,  Xai.’  Rontane  sounded casual but Ralph could see she was peering all around, alert to danger. ‘I’m entitled to take a life in exchange.’


‘What does she mean,  
our
 serpent?’ Ralph hissed. 


‘She’s trying to get a reaction from us,’ Xai murmured. 


‘It’s you and the Ballantynes we want. The others don’t matter. I’ll kill the woman first, then the boy.’


Ralph could practically feel the fight go out of Xai. He knew that they had no choice; they had to surrender. When they’d had the element of surprise, they  might  just  have  had  a  chance,  but  now  the  advantage  was  with Rontane. 


‘All right,’ Xai called. Turning to Ralph, he lowered his voice. ‘Maybe I could say you ran away and –’


‘We  can’t  take  that  chance,’  Ralph  said,  heavy-hearted.  ‘If  she  doesn’t believe  you,  she  could  kill  Niko   
or
  Grant  and  still  have  a  hold  over  you because she’d still have Robyn. But why does Rontane want us?’


‘I’ll  give  you  one  guess:  Mbato.’  Xai  nodded.  ‘He’s  dealt  with  Abrafo before. When we moved on from Gerhard’s territory, he must have put the word out. The poaching community knows the territory better than anyone.’


‘They  didn’t  seem  to  know  about  that  giant  snake  on  the  loose,’  Ralph said  with  a  shudder.  He  wondered  again:  Why  did  Rontane  think  the monster was anything to do with them – and where had the predasaur come from?  There’d  been  no  sign  of  giant  serpents  in  Gerhard’s  game  reserve. 


But  all  these  questions  fled  his  mind  as  they  rounded  an  acacia  tree  and came face to face with Rontane and the others. 


Up  close,  Rontane  looked  even  more  formidable  –  a  big,  tough-looking woman with two gold front teeth shining in a mouth of stained yellow. The gun  she  pointed  at  Niko’s  head  had  clearly  seen  plenty  of  action.  Grant stared grimly at the barrel, as if hypnotised. Robyn sat a few metres away with  Rontane’s  comrade,  Tharn,  standing  over  her.  Her  leg  wound  had  a neat line of plastic strips over it, the tourniquet was still wrapped around her thigh, and she was pale. 


‘Put the gun down, Rontane,’ Xai said. ‘We’re not armed.’


‘More fool you,’ said Rontane. ‘Call it in, Tharn.’


Tharn raised his rifle and coughed loudly and noisily. His sallow face was beaded  with  sweat  as  he  spoke  into  his  phone,  using  a  dialect  Ralph couldn’t decipher. 


‘Your  friend  seems  sick,’  Niko  said  slowly.  ‘Has  he  been  to  any  urban areas lately?’


‘You  think  this  is  funny?’  Rontane  jammed  the  revolver’s  barrel  harder against Niko’s head. ‘Think you and your lover-boy are clever?’


‘D’you see us laughing?’ Robyn scowled. ‘We should get away from here before that giant snake –’


‘ 
Your
 giant snake.’ Rontane stared at her coldly. ‘I’m a man down, thanks to  you.  He  was  a  lazy  waste  of  space,  sure  –  but  you’ll  pay.’  She  looked across  at  Tharn.  ‘Ironic,  huh?  Us  doing  a  public  service  for  once.  Maybe our beloved president will give us a medal as well as the bounty.’


Xai  was  losing  patience.  ‘Look,  we’ve  told  you.  We  don’t  know  what you’re talking about.’


‘Tharn downloaded the Channel Two news report in Pretoria so we’d be able  to  recognise  you,’  Rontane  said.  Waving  the  gun,  she  gestured  Niko and Grant over to Ralph and Xai. ‘Go ahead, Tharn. Show them.’


Tharn stabbed at his phone screen. He held it out in his left hand, keeping the gun trained on Robyn in his right. 


Roland  Ballantyne’s  face  appeared  on  a  screen  behind  the  news  anchor Ralph had seen on Channel Two a thousand times before. A chill ran down Ralph’s back. 


‘Evidence  has  come  to  light  that  a  respected  authority  on  wildlife conservation  management,  Roland  Ballantyne,  has  been  funding  genetic research  into  bringing  extinct  animals  back  into  the  wild  –  with  deadly


consequences.  We  warn  viewers  that  this  news  item  contains  images  that some may find distressing …’


Robyn, straining to see the screen, scowled. ‘What the –’


Tharn coughed noisily. Xai held up a hand to silence him, frowning at the screen. Lazy raindrops began to fall again, splashing on the screen as if the sky was crying. 


Ralph  could  barely  believe  what  he  was  seeing  as  the  ‘story’  unfolded. 


The footage and images had been faked or taken out of context to create a brand-new  narrative.  The  report  claimed  to  show  that  Roland  Ballantyne had  recreated  savage  beasts  from  prehistory  (cut  to  shots  of  the sarcosuchus,  the  cave  lion  and  a  woolly  rhino)  by  inserting  ancient  DNA into  modern  animal  cells  to  rear  predators  and  prey.  Ralph  recognised Gerhard’s lab, but it appeared to be Roland’s face behind the surgical mask. 


Then  the  voiceover  detailed  how  Roland’s  son  and  daughter  had  used cutting-edge software developed by Luke van Rok, heir to VanRok Security Solutions, to smuggle the creatures onto Josef Gerhard’s reserve as an anti-hunting  stunt  to  damage  Gerhard’s  standing  (cue  a  montage  of  shots  that chilled  Ralph.  There  was  security  camera  footage  of  himself,  Robyn  and Luke  running  through  Gerhard’s  reserve,  then  the  cave  lion  attacking  a security  guard).  The  news  anchor  continued  that  Grant  Khumalo  –  son  of the  Green  Freedom  Party’s  founding  leader  Max  Khumalo  –  was  aiding their criminal trespass. The screen now showed Grant with a rifle watching hippos being attacked by cave hyenas. Apparently Ballantyne himself, his former  adjutant,  Nqosa  Xai,  and  his  partner  Niko  Haart,  a  professor  of epidemiology and expert in zoonotic diseases, had later stormed Gerhard’s reserve  themselves,  killing  ten  rangers  as  they  ran  amok.  The  footage showed Xai and Roland shooting at Gerhard’s rangers, who staggered and fell, then the shot cut away to show Niko smashing a Crocodile Lodge jeep into one of Gerhard’s trucks. 


Ralph’s mouth hung open in disbelief. ‘It didn’t happen that way … none of it!’


‘Sure,’ said Rontane. ‘We believe you. Totally.’


Just  when  Ralph  thought  it  was  over,  the  twisted  narrative  went  on. 


Experts were convinced that the new virus spreading through the world was not  only  zoonotic  but  from  ancient  animals  –  and  that  it  had  flared  up  in


South Africa. The implication was clear: the Ballantynes were to blame for Gerhard’s virus. 


The  piece  ended  with  a  statement  from  President  Mbato.  ‘I  served  with Ballantyne and Xai in the Recces twenty years ago,’ he said. ‘Many of his men died during Ballantyne’s watch on an anti-poaching operation that led to his eventual resignation from the service. I believe this tragedy has led to his desire for vengeance against  
all
 hunters.’


‘Anyone who could pick up a gun and kill a defenceless animal needs to be stopped.’ Roland’s face filled the screen. ‘They deserve to die.’


‘He never said that,’ Xai muttered. 


‘It’s  a  deepfake,’  said  Ralph.  ‘Gerhard  has  enough  computing  power  to create  fake  footage  like  that.  Most  people  will  believe  that  without questioning it.’


Finally,  pictures  of  all  of  them  were  shown  and  the  news  reporter continued.  ‘These  fugitives  must  be  considered  highly  dangerous.  If sighted, do not attempt to approach or engage. Call the police at once.’


The report cut off, and the screen faded to black. 




9


Robyn  was  gritting  her  teeth  so  hard  that  her  jaw  throbbed.  But  she  was damned  if  she  was  going  to  cry  in  front  of  Rontane  and  her  pet  thug.  To imagine  the  whole  world  watching  reports  like  that!  Her  dad’s  reputation and future had been blown away in a handful of deep-faked moments. 


‘All  right,  Tharn,  let’s  tie  their  hands  and  move  out.’  Rontane  smirked. 


‘Ballantyne’s always acted so pure and innocent and holier-than-thou. But all along he’s been sick in the brain.’


‘It’s bull!’ Robyn snapped. 


Tharn prodded her shoulder with the butt of his rifle, indicating she get up. 


‘Move.’  He  coughed  noisily  in  her  face  and  she  turned  away,  disgusted. 


‘Move, or you’re gonna be sorry.’


‘I’d save your breath, Tharn,’ Ralph told Tharn. ‘Sounds like you haven’t got so much of it.’ He helped Robyn to stand and she winced with pain. 


Grant took her other arm to steady her. ‘They’ve royally screwed us,’ he muttered. ‘Discredited your dad  
and
 mine by association …’


‘And  Luke,’  Ralph  whispered.  ‘Poor  Luke,  what  will  his  family  be thinking now?’


 
It’s my fault Luke got involved
, thought Robyn.  
All
 
of this is my fault
. ‘The whole world will be against us now.’


‘Explains why Mbato felt able to send that Special Forces helicopter after us,’ Xai said. 


‘Lucky for my bank balance, we found you first.’ Rontane held Robyn’s wrists together in front of her and slipped plastic zip-ties over them, pulling them  tight.  ‘Don’t  worry  too  much,  though.  It’s  all  good.  The  army  will mop up your pet monsters and the land will be safe again – safe for us to do our jobs, at least.’


‘Jobs!’  Robyn  glared.  ‘That’s  what  you  call  the  slaughter  of  incredible animals? A job?’


Rontane shook her head, smiling. ‘I call it a vocation.’


The  rain  started  to  fall  harder.  Under  Tharn’s  baleful  gaze  Rontane  tied Xai’s  hands  together,  then  Grant’s,  Ralph’s  and  Niko’s.  A  squawk  came from  Tharn’s  radio.  He  wiped  his  forehead  and  muttered  into  the  radio before reporting to Rontane. ‘No snake in sight.’


‘Good.  We’ll  move  out.’  She  straightened  her  wide-brimmed  hat, protecting  her  face  from  the  downpour.  ‘May  as  well  take  the  Ballantyne truck so there’s room for all the bodies. I’ll take Xai, Khumalo and Niko in that. You take Ballantyne’s kids.’


Rontane pushed Xai and Grant towards the truck, keeping a tight hold on Niko’s arm. 


‘Robyn,’ Niko called, ‘you mustn’t leave the tourniquet in place. Take it off when you’re lying down.’


But  Tharn  was  already  herding  Robyn  and  Ralph  ahead  of  him  in  the opposite  direction,  down  a  sketchy  path  through  the  brush.  Still  the rainstorm  battered  down  on  them.  Robyn  was  soaked  through  in  seconds. 


Ralph lost his footing and slid, cracking his shins painfully against the sharp rocks, but Tharn just laughed and hauled Ralph to his feet. He was looking all  around  as  he  walked,  gripping  his  gun  tightly,  watching  out  for  the serpent. 


Robyn limped through the long grass and edged closer to Ralph. ‘Looks like  this  is  game  over,’  she  said  quietly.  ‘Catching  us  will  make  Mbato  a hero  –  bagging  dangerous  terrorists  who  probably  unleashed  this  virus  on purpose.’


‘The report didn’t say that,’ Ralph argued weakly. 


‘They  made  damn  sure  to  say  that  Niko’s  specialty  is  zoonotic  diseases. 


The public will put two and two together –’


‘And  make  five.’  Ralph  lowered  his  voice.  ‘But  I  still  have  the  phone. 


There’s the video of Mbato hunting the sarcosuchus on Gerhard’s land –’


‘Move faster.’ Tharn shoved Ralph forward, and he nearly slipped again. 


Robyn gasped as she almost fell with him, but even with his hands tied he clung on to her and helped her navigate the densely wooded hillside. 


‘That video’s worthless now,’ Robyn muttered. 


‘You’re right.’ Ralph seemed to deflate. ‘It’s all been for nothing.’


They trudged on until they were walking past tangles of bushes, not trees, and a battered Land Rover came into sight. Tharn pushed them on towards it.  Robyn  hissed  with  pain  as  thorns  scratched  at  her  bad  leg.  The  skin around the wound was red and puckered, fresh blood mixed with rainwater dribbling down from it to stain her sock crimson. The gash would scar, for sure. Assuming she lived long enough for that to happen. 


‘In.’ Tharn slammed Ralph against the wet door and gestured for him to open it. The tang of stale sweat and fetid leather greeted them. Ralph helped Robyn inside so she could lie on her back, elevating her bad leg. The rain beat a cacophony on the Land Rover’s canvas roof. 


‘Niko  said  you  should  take  off  the  tourniquet,’  Ralph  reminded  her, getting in beside her. Robyn nodded, her tied hands fumbling with the stick that held the tourniquet tight around her thigh. Tharn got into the driver’s seat, still coughing. Robyn cringed, her memory snapping back to her day in Gauda at the start of this nightmare, when she had helped Niko to treat victims of the virus. The rattle of coughing had been the soundtrack to that ordeal. 


‘I  think  he’s  caught  it,’  she  hissed  to  Ralph,  loosening  the  bandage. 


‘Gerhard’s virus.’


Ralph swallowed hard. ‘No, he can’t have. It’ll just be a cold, or a fever or something.’


But when Tharn turned and knelt on the driver’s seat, staring at Robyn and Ralph past the headrest, Robyn could see that sweat dripped from his face and  that  his  bloodshot  eyes  were  red-rimmed.  He  still  gripped  the  rifle  in one hand, but had another set of plastic zip-ties in the other. He jabbed the gun butt into Ralph’s legs, indicating that he raise them. ‘Ankles, now. No tricks.’


Ralph glanced at his sister, then slowly raised his legs. 


Tharn coughed again, a deep, hacking sound, without covering his mouth. 


Ralph cringed and turned away. Tharn put down the rifle while he fitted the zip-tie around Ralph’s ankles and pulled it tight. 


At that moment, Robyn sprang forward and looped her tourniquet around Tharn’s  neck,  twisting  hard.  The  poacher  roared  in  anger,  clutching  at  his throat.  Thrashing  about,  he  pulled  away.  Robyn  almost  lost  her  hold,  but Ralph  kicked  out  at  Tharn’s  face,  his  muddy  boots  cracking  against  the man’s  temple,  knocking  him  back  into  the  dash.  Robyn  leaned  forward, pulling on the ends of the bandage as if Tharn was a runaway horse she was trying  to  control.  He  was  still  groping  around  for  his  rifle,  and  finally  his fingers found it. He tried to lift it, but Ralph kicked it away. Finally, Tharn stopped struggling and slumped against the steering wheel. 


‘Let go of the bandage,’ Ralph gasped. ‘You’ll strangle him.’


Robyn  had  already  released  her  grip.  ‘Don’t  leave  the  tourniquet  on  for more than ninety minutes,’ she hissed at Tharn. 


Ralph  pulled  the  rifle  from  the  front  seat  into  the  back.  ‘What  are  we going to do?’ he asked Robyn. ‘My ankles are tied and your leg is a mess. 


Can’t  see  us  getting  far.  Unless  …’  With  some  effort,  he  pulled  a  large folding knife from the poacher’s trouser pocket. ‘Sharp thinking?’


Robyn winced as much at the joke as from the pain in her leg. ‘Just cut my hands free and I’ll do the same for you.’


‘Ladies first,’ Ralph agreed. He pressed on a catch and the blade flicked out. ‘Hold still.’ He started to saw through the white plastic zip-tie on her wrists. ‘If I cut through a vein or something …’


‘You won’t.’ It came out as more of an order than a reassurance. Robyn softened her tone. ‘You’ll be careful, I know.’


But Ralph didn’t move. 


‘What is it?’ she asked. 


‘D’you hear that?’ he whispered. 


At first, the steady drum of the rain on the roof was all that Robyn could hear. Then there was something else: a strange sound, echoing distantly, as if  coming  from  everywhere  at  once.  It  sounded  like  the  sea,  a  noise  like waves crashing against the rocks. 


The realisation of what was approaching hit them simultaneously. 


‘Flash flood,’ breathed Robyn. 


It  was,  she  knew,  a  common  enough  hazard  in  the  mountains:  when  the rain fell so fast that it was unable to drain into the soil fast enough, roads could swiftly become rivers. Before their deadly hide-and-seek flight, this had  seemed  like  abstract  information,  but  the  collapsed  hillsides  they’d witnessed and the boulders they’d had to clear on the road here showed just how powerful a flood could be. 


‘We  need  to  get  out  of  here,’  Ralph  said,  starting  to  panic.  ‘Change  of plan. You cut  
me
 loose and we’ll climb up as high as we can.’


‘I can’t climb anywhere!’ Robyn slapped her palms against her thigh and gestured to her wound. 


‘I’ll carry you. Fireman’s lift,’ Ralph said, throwing open the driver’s door and sliding out to stand on his still-tied feet. ‘But I need to be able to walk.’


He stooped and sliced viciously into the thick plastic restraints holding his ankles, grunting as he pulled them free. Then he shuffled stiffly around to open the rear door, the knife still in his hands. ‘Come on.’


‘Too late!’ Robyn shouted: through the filthy rear windscreen she saw a wall of water surging down the road, set to engulf them. ‘Ralph, get in,’ she snapped. ‘Now!’


Ralph was already moving, hurling himself inside as the water struck the Land  Rover,  hard  as  a  giant  sledgehammer.  The  car  skidded  forward,  and Robyn  and  Ralph  were  thrown  off  the  seat  in  a  tangle  of  arms  and  legs. 


Freezing cold water stung her skin as the deluge lifted the Land Rover off the ground entirely and they were swept down the hillside, spinning about as if they were on some nightmare funfair ride. 


‘Brace yourse—’ Ralph shouted, but his words were choked off as filthy water  poured  in  through  the  open  passenger  door,  soaking  him.  Robyn’s wrists were still tied and her left leg was agony so she could only use one knee  and  her  back  to  wedge  herself  in  place  in  the  footwell.  Their  speed increased  with  every  passing  second,  and  there  was  a  sickening  scrape  of metal  on  stone  as  they  hit  something.  They  crashed  into  a  tree  and  the windscreen caved in as the tree branches forced their way inside, like thick, thorny  fingers  questing  for  prey.  For  a  few  seconds  the  splintered  wood anchored them there. 


‘Rob!’  Ralph  shouted,  sitting  up  in  the  flooded  footwell.  ‘You  OK?’  He looked  like  a  drowned  rat  as  he  sawed  furiously  at  the  zip-tie  around  her wrists. ‘We gotta get out –’


More  water  hammered  down  on  top  of  him  as  the  Land  Rover  jerked forward  again  and  the  canvas  roof  was  torn  open  by  the  tree  branches. 


Again,  they  were  pitched  into  freefall.  As  Robyn  was  thrown  backwards, the zip-tie snapped and her wrists were released. But then the Land Rover tipped over onto its side, bumping and scraping over rocks as it was carried along in the torrent. Robyn shrieked as she tumbled over the back seat and struck Ralph, pinning him to the door. 


Then the Land Rover hit something else with a deafening bang and righted itself.  The  rear  end  swung  out  into  the  floodwater  and  the  door  flapped open. 


Robyn  clung  to  Ralph  as  the  two  of  them  were  thrown  from  the  Land Rover  into  the  filthy,  frothing  water.  For  what  felt  like  forever,  her  world was literally turned upside-down as the flash flood engulfed her and Ralph. 


Every  few  seconds  she  found  herself  able  to  snatch  a  breath  as  her  head came  to  the  surface,  but  then  the  current  dragged  her  down  again  as  the river of water, mud and debris swirled them around. 


She choked back a cry of pain as the raging water poured into a crevasse, slamming her into the rocky wall. Ralph’s wrists were still tied, so she put her arm through his to link them. He kicked and she front-crawled with her free  arm  as  they  tried  to  stay  afloat.  And  despite  the  buffeting,  it  was working. It was actually  
working
, and Robyn felt hope begin to rise inside her. 


But  then  they  were  swept  against  a  protruding  rock,  and  Robyn  felt  her brother go limp. His head dipped under the water. 


‘Ralph!’ she shouted, trying to pull him back up as they were carried out of  the  crevasse  and  into  a  larger  body  of  water.  The  mountain  track  had become a raging river and the powerful current proved too strong for her. 


Robyn gave a cry of despair as Ralph was ripped from her arms. She caught one  brief  glimpse  of  his  motionless  body  before  the  torrent  dragged  him away. 




10


Slowly, dizzily, Ralph woke from a terrible nightmare about drowning. 


At least, he assumed it was a nightmare …


Yes,  it  must  have  been.  Otherwise,  how  could  he  be  back  in  his  bed  at Crocodile Lodge? At least, he  
assumed
 it was his bed …


He sighed and stretched. Of course it was his bed. It was warm and soft, and the sheets and blankets were tucked tightly around him. 


But … why was his hair so wet? And his face? 


Ralph opened his eyes. The fuzziness in his brain allowed only trickles of detail to get through, but he knew that something was wrong. If this was his bedroom,  then  the  ceiling  had  been  torn  away.  He  was  staring  up  at  the remnants  of  storm  clouds  scudding  across  a  deep  black  sky.  
I  remember
 
something about a storm
, he thought uncertainly, and hoped Robyn and his dad were OK in their rooms. He looked around. His bedroom walls seemed to be missing too, and if this really was his bed then it was moving in the most peculiar way – squeezing,  
tightening
 …


As  his  last  moments  of  consciousness  came  crashing  back  into  focus, Ralph panicked. ‘Robyn?’ he shouted, and tried to get up. But he couldn’t move his legs. He was stone-cold with horror. Had the battering he’d taken in  the  floodwaters  left  him  paralysed?  No,  he  could   
feel
  his  legs,  he  just couldn’t move them. 


As he struggled to sit upright, straining to see what had pinioned him, the moon emerged from behind the clouds, and Ralph realised that the reality of


his situation was worse than any nightmare. 


Battered  and  bloody,  the  titanoboa  had  also  survived  the  flash  flood.  Its eyes were barely a metre from his own and Ralph’s legs were already deep inside the creature’s gullet. With every passing second it was drawing him deeper into its jaws. 


It  took  all  of  Ralph’s  willpower  not  to  dissolve  into  a  screaming  panic. 


The giant snake was obviously injured, but it was still more than a match for him. Any sudden movement on his part would only kill him sooner. 


 
I can’t die
, he told himself.  
I’ve got to find Robyn
. 


Ralph  blinked  furiously,  willing  his  eyesight  to  sharpen  in  the  moonlit gloom.  He  could  see  that  the  floodwater  had  deposited  him  in  thick,  wet mud at the bottom of a shallow valley. At least the zip-tie around his wrists had  snapped  at  some  point.  All  around  him  were  boulders  and  uprooted trees. He spotted a truck wheel, then the twisted wreck of a Land Rover and assorted pieces of debris. 


 
Must be Tharn’s
, Ralph figured.  
Swept down here like I was. 


Ralph craned his neck to see if there was anything within easy reach that he might be able to use as a weapon. With a surge of hope he spotted a rifle, half buried in the wet mud.  
Probably Tharn’s too
. Keeping his movements slow and steady, he stretched out for it, but it was just out of his grasp. 


He sifted through the mud, searching for something that he could use to extend his reach. If he could hook a branch or something through the rifle’s strap …


Just  then,  he  felt  the  pressure  around  his  thighs  increase,  and  he  was jerked towards the snake, his fingers raking through the mud as he tried to find  purchase.  As  careful  as  he  had  been,  his  movements  had  obviously alerted  the  snake  to  the  fact  that  he  had  regained  consciousness.  Clearly, even weakened, it wasn’t ready to lose a meal. 


Realising  that  there  was  nothing  within  reach  that  could  stop  him  being pulled into the snake’s maw, Ralph changed tack. If he couldn’t do anything to get away from the snake, then he needed to come up with a plan of attack for when he was  
closer
. 


As the creature’s jaws slid over his waist, he jabbed his fingers hard into the creature’s right eye. The snake gave a hiss of discomfort but showed no sign of releasing its grip on him. Ralph jabbed even harder, feeling the soft


tissue  squish  beneath  his  fingertips.  This  time  it  had  an  effect.  The  snake writhed in pain, thrashing its head from side to side and shaking Ralph as if it was a child playing with a rattle. 


Ralph gave a cry of pain as he hit something hard, half buried in the mud. 


It was a small fire extinguisher, which must have torn free from the Land Rover. 


Knowing that this was his only chance, Ralph began to struggle, beating at the  snake  with  one  hand  while  scrabbling  desperately  for  the  fire extinguisher with the other. He moaned with fear. Twice his fingers brushed against  the  metal  handle,  but  on  each  occasion  he  failed  to  get  a  grasp. 


Finally the snake’s writhing brought him within reach and he got a firm grip on the handle. 


With a wet sucking noise, the extinguisher came free. Yelling in triumph, Ralph  pulled  out  the  pin  and  unleashed  a  cloud  of  CO2  into  the  snake’s face. 


The effect was instantaneous. 


Convulsing,  the  titanoboa  virtually  vomited  up  Ralph  before  recoiling. 


Ralph blasted again with the extinguisher, splashing and sliding about as he tried  to  push  himself  away  with  his  heels  through  the  thick  mud.  The titanoboa gave up, and began to slither away. Clutching the canister to his chest, Ralph listened to the sound of its scales rasping across the ground as it glided off into the night. 


For  the  next  minute  or  so  he  just  lay  there,  exhausted,  barely  daring  to breathe,  straining  to  hear  the  monster  returning.  But  the  night  was  eerily silent, with only a few mournful calls and caterwauls from the darkness, as if the bush were licking its wounds. 


Ralph had more than a few of his own to tend to. First, mostly from habit, he felt inside his sock for the mobile phone with the evidence against Mbato filed away in its internal memory. It was still safe against his ankle, along with  about  a  dozen  bruises.  He  dragged  himself  over  to  the  wreck  of  the Land Rover, hoping to find a first aid kit, but all he found was a mangled body  jammed  beneath  the  steering  wheel.  For  a  moment  he  was  afraid  it was Robyn. Then he saw the bandage around the neck and realised it was Tharn. 


Ralph  nearly  hurled.  He  quickly  abandoned  his  search,  squelching  and slipping over to perch on the trunk of an uprooted tree. He was wet, cold and exhausted. Every muscle in his body ached, and his arms and legs were a mass of cuts and bruises. All he wanted to do was curl up and sleep, but how could he? Robyn was out there somewhere. He had to find her. Then maybe they could track down their dad, and Niko and Grant and Xai, and rescue them from Rontane and her poachers before Mbato could …


For a moment the hopelessness of the situation almost overwhelmed him. 


Almost. 


Then  he  forced  himself  to  get  back  to  his  feet.  Giving  up  was  not  an option. He was a Ballantyne, and his family were relying on him. He was like his ancestor, Zouga Ballantyne, an adventurist, and he planned to stay alive to add his story to the family journal. 


He  began  to  look  around  the  valley  floor,  sifting  through  the  wreckage brought down by the floodwaters to see if there was anything that might be useful to him. Frustratingly, the rifle’s barrel was bent, so it could never be fired again, but on impulse he unclipped the rifle’s telescopic sight. That, at least, seemed undamaged, and it might come in useful. 


He  had  more  luck  with  food  and  water,  finding  a  rucksack  containing  a full  canteen  and  several  foil-wrapped  survival  rations.  Clearly  Tharn  was well  used  to  the  demands  of  long  treks  through  the  veldt  in  search  of helpless animals to slaughter. Suddenly realising how hungry and thirsty he was,  Ralph  unwrapped  one  of  the  ration  packs  and  wolfed  down  its contents. He took his time with the water, taking a couple of long, grateful mouthfuls  before  screwing  the  cap  back  onto  the  canteen  and  stuffing  it back into the rucksack. There was no telling how long it might be before he found clean water again, so he needed to ration himself. 


Ralph did one final sweep of the debris field but, apart from a foil survival blanket,  he  saw  nothing  else  that  would  be  of  use  to  him.  Packing  the blanket alongside the water and provisions, Ralph hoisted the rucksack onto his shoulders and set off unsteadily into the night. Almost immediately he stumbled  over  a  gnarled,  broken  tree  root  and  fell  flat  on  his  face  in  the mud. 


And he knew it then: fear was overriding all that his father and Xai had taught  him.  Attempting  to  search  for  Robyn  in  the  pitch  black  South


African night was madness – worse, it was suicidal. He was cold, he was wet and he had no light. In his current condition, there were a million ways that he could be killed, besides a grudge match with that giant serpent. He could come face to face with a hunting predator (and given the stink that his clothes were giving off, they’d have no problem tracking him) or he could fall into a ravine or river. Even spraining his ankle at this point would be catastrophic. 


With  sudden  clarity  he  realised  that  he  needed  to  find  somewhere  safe where he could dry his sodden clothes and could catch a few hours of sleep. 


By his reckoning the sun would be coming up in a matter of hours, and then at least he would be able to see properly whatever dangers he was facing. 


Ralph came across a tree and clambered up it until he found a fork in the branches  into  which  he  could  wedge  himself  without  fear  of  falling. 


Satisfied with his refuge, he stripped off his wet clothes and hung them on the  branches  around  him.  He  might  not  be  able  to  get  them  clean,  but  he could at least try to get them dry. 


Shivering in the cool night air, he pulled the foil survival blanket from the rucksack,  unfolding  it  and  wrapping  it  around  and  underneath  him  like  a cape. As he leaned back against the tree he could hear the distinctive call of a fiery-necked nightjar ring out through the night air. Ralph took that as a good omen. The nightjar’s chirruping cry was often described as ‘good lord, deliver us’ and just now he could think of nothing more apt. 


But  what  was  that  humming,  buzzing  noise  behind  it,  far  off?  Sounded like a helicopter …


Ralph’s weary eyes flicked open.  
Mbato’s men again
, he thought.  
They’ve
 
found me
.  He  looked  upward  but  the  canopy  of  leaves  hid  the  night  from view – and him from eyes in the sky, he hoped. 


The  drone  of  the  rotors  faded  like  a  dream.  Ralph  closed  his  eyes, listening  to  the  nightjar  repeat  the  phrase  –   
good  lord,  deliver  us
  –  and within a minute he was asleep. 




11


Robyn woke, shivering, to see daylight stretching through the shadows of a cave. But she wasn’t cold. She felt hot, and a band of pain sat hard behind her aching eyes. 


Through  the  cave  mouth  she  could  see  a  lush,  green  valley  and  a  wide river fringed with trees, tall grasses and flowering plants. It was beautiful; so beautiful, her mind all but rejected it. 


How  had  she  got  here?  She  remembered  limping  through  the  night  for what felt like ages, but had that just been a dream? Her clothes were dry, she realised – and memory snatched her away to disjointed impressions of the flash flood. One of her last clear memories was of Ralph’s lifeless body vanishing from view as the frothing water swept her away from him. After that, her recollections began to get hazy. 


‘Remember,’ Robyn muttered, hugging herself tight. ‘Focus.’


The  flood  water  had  whisked  her  down  the  mountain  like  a  leaf  carried along a gutter. She’d barely been able to keep her head above water. Finally, she managed to get a grip on a tangle of broken branches and foliage being carried along by the river and pulled herself on top of it. As the violence of the surging water gradually receded, her body had finally surrendered, and she’d lost consciousness. 


When  Robyn  had  eventually  come  to,  she  found  herself  lying  partly submerged  in  the  wet  mud  of  the  riverbank,  the  raft  of  foliage  that  had


saved her life entwined in the trailing branches of a Safsaf willow tree that overhung the river. 


Every  muscle  aching,  her  leg  wound  red  and  throbbing,  she  had  wanted nothing  more  than  to  lie  there  and  sleep,  but  an  inbuilt  survival  instinct, instilled in her from years of living and working in the bushveld, told her that to do so was to invite certain death. 


Hauling herself from the clinging mud, she’d been relieved to find that the rugged,  waterproof  torch  she’d  been  carrying  in  her  trouser  pocket  for weeks  was  still  working.  She  found  a  lonely  piece  of  chocolate  too,  and remembered  Grant  giving  it  to  her.  How  long  ago  was  that?  She  missed him. 


As  Robyn  played  the  torch’s  beam  around  the  water’s  edge,  she  saw dozens of sets of animal tracks. This was obviously a popular watering hole for the local wildlife, and none of it needed to be genetically engineered to pose a danger to her. 


Finding  a  well-used  path  through  the  foliage,  she’d  made  her  way  away from  the  river  as  quickly  as  possible.  She  knew  that  she  needed  to  find somewhere  warm  and  dry  to  spend  the  night,  and  she  needed  to  find  it quickly. 


She ended up in a small, safe cave, where she gathered as much tinder and dry brush wood as she could scavenge, arranging it carefully inside a ring of  stones.  Then  she  removed  the  piece  of  chocolate  from  her  pocket  and unwrapped  it.  Placing  the  chocolate  to  one  side  she  smoothed  the  foil wrapping  flat,  then  folded  and  tore  it  into  three  long  strips,  each  strip thinner in the middle than at the ends, and placed each one on the floor in front of her. 


Making  a  mental  map  of  where  everything  was,  Robyn  turned  off  the torch.  After  a  few  minutes,  as  her  eyes  slowly  became  accustomed  to  the darkness, she unscrewed the back of the torch and shook one of the lithium batteries into the palm of her hand. 


Then came the tricky bit. 


Reaching out, she located one of the foil strips, then pressed the wide ends onto  the  positive  and  negative  terminals  of  the  battery.  Immediately  the thinner part of the wrapper started to smoulder from the current and there was a flare of light as it ignited. 


Robyn  thrust  the  burning  wrapper  into  the  tinder,  but  the  flame  was already dying and the cave was plunged into blackness once more. 


Trying to stay calm, Robyn repeated the procedure with the second strip of foil but, again, the tinder failed to catch. Aware that she only had one piece of foil wrapper remaining, she tried a third time. This time, to her relief, the tinder  started  to  smoulder  and  crackle  and  she  soon  managed  to  get  a respectable fire burning. 


As soon as Robyn was satisfied that it wasn’t going to go out, she quickly reassembled  the  torch  and  checked  that  it  still  worked.  Then  she  stripped down to her underwear and draped her wet clothes on rocks around the fire. 


Feeling warm and dry after what seemed like an eternity, she treated herself to the final square of chocolate. She fell asleep with its sweetness still on her tongue. 


Then she’d woken up, coughing. The fire was dead, but her skin was hot and  clammy.  At  once  she  pictured  Tharn:  his  sweaty,  sallow  face,  his hacking cough that had filled the Land Rover. 


 
‘Your friend seems sick,’ 
 Niko had said to Rontane.  
 ‘Has he been to any
 
urban areas lately?’


The memory made her moan with fear. ‘I’m not sick,’ she said out loud, quickly getting dressed. ‘I am not sick.  
Not sick
.’


Dizzy  but  determined  to  prove  to  herself  that  she  wasn’t  sick  –  she couldn’t have caught Gerhard’s virus – she left the cave and walked as best she could with her bad leg into the beautiful valley, feeling dazed and light-headed.  Here  she  was,  face  to  face  with  a  kind  of  paradise.  
Things  are
 
looking up
, she thought.  
They’ve got to be
. 


Robyn coughed again. She covered her mouth. 


And her palm came away flecked with blood. 


The morning sun was creeping above the treetops by the time Ralph woke. 


He’d  slept  for  far  longer  than  he’d  intended.  He  dressed  quickly,  grateful that the sun had dried and warmed his mud-stained clothes. Stuffing the foil blanket  back  into  the  rucksack,  Ralph  unwrapped  another  of  the  ration packs, eating more slowly this time. From his perch in the tree he could see the terrain around him properly, and it wasn’t a pretty sight. Someone had definitely been mining here – for coal, he guessed – and the trees stopped in


a line beyond which all plant life had been scoured from the surface. It was small  wonder  that  the  flash  flood  had  been  so  violent,  without  trees  and bushes and roots to slow down the water and hold the soil together. 


Finishing  the  last  mouthful  of  his  ration  bar  Ralph  pulled  the  telescopic sight from the rucksack and began to search for any sign that Robyn might have  passed  this  way.  There  was  none,  but  a  glint  of  light  caught  his attention on the far side of the valley. He readjusted the scope and his heart leaped as a cleared area with a collection of buildings swam into focus: he’d found a mine! If it was still in operation then there might be people there, and that could mean access to a radio, food, medical supplies … Even if the place had been abandoned, he might still find invaluable equipment there. If Robyn  
was
 out here, he only hoped that she had spotted the place too. 


Stuffing  the  scope  back  into  the  rucksack,  Ralph  took  a  moment  to  fix features on the mountainside that he could use to keep his bearings, then he scrambled down the tree. He set off towards the mine with renewed vigour. 


The  ground  beneath  his  feet  was  treacherously  slippery  and  littered  with razor-sharp  rocks.  As  he  edged  gingerly  around  an  awkwardly  protruding outcrop  of  rock,  Ralph’s  hand  touched  something  smooth  and  round.  He looked  down  to  see  what  appeared  to  be  a  giant  fossilised  turtle  shell sticking  out  of  the  soft  mudstone.  It  was  almost  five  feet  across!  As  he looked  around  he  realised  that  he  could  see  other  fossils,  revealed  by  the landslide. 


 
Raw materials for Gerhard
, Ralph thought,  
right here on his doorstep. 


Ralph  resumed  his  cautious  progress  across  the  field  of  fossils,  feeling unsettlingly  like  a  first-person  shooter  in  one  of  his  games,  only  unarmed and low on health. He tried to keep out of direct view of anyone who might be  watching  from  the  mine,  and  regularly  scanned  his  surroundings  to check that nothing was coming up behind him. There were no save points where he could respawn in real life. If he was caught, it was game over. 


The sun was nearly at its zenith by the time Ralph reached the far side of the valley. 


His  mouth  dry  from  the  baking  sun,  and  his  fingertips  cracked  and bleeding  from  the  sharp  rocks,  Ralph  climbed  until  he  had  a  clear  line  of sight to the untidy cluster of sheds and prefabricated huts that made up the mine workings. They stood beyond a tall rusty fence crowned with barbed


wire. He pulled the telescopic sight from his rucksack and squinted through it,  trying  to  make  out  any  sign  of  movement  inside  the  buildings,  but  the entire place was eerily quiet. If there was anyone here, the chances of him scaling the fence without being spotted were virtually non-existent. 


Instead, he turned his attention to an open-fronted garage structure on  
his
 side of the fence where a rust-streaked digger and two battered dump trucks sat  covered  in  a  ragged  tarpaulin.  If  he  couldn’t  go   
over
  the  fence,  then perhaps  he  could  cut   
through 
 it?  And  if  he  was  going  to  find  anything  to help him with that, then the garage seemed like a logical place to start. 


Slipping the scope back into the rucksack Ralph began to skirt around the edge  of  the  mine,  keeping  low  behind  the  piles  of  rocks  and  old  mining equipment,  until  he  reached  the  garage.  A  long  wooden  workbench  ran along the back wall, but the only tools there were rusted and broken. If he could find a good rock, that might make a hammer for a chisel he’d found, which  looked  as  ancient  as  the  fossils  strewn  outside.  It  would  be  noisy work, though, trying to chip his way through a fence …


The sound of something heavy being dragged across the ground made him freeze.  Picking  up  a  warped,  cobwebbed  crowbar  from  the  workbench, Ralph  began  to  creep  back  towards  the  garage  entrance.  The  dragging sound was getting closer, and Ralph realised he was trapped in the garage. 


Knowing  that  the  element  of  surprise  was  the  only  thing  in  his  favour, Ralph took a deep breath and burst out into the open, wielding the crowbar above his head as if it was a broadsword. 


The sight that greeted him stopped him dead in his tracks. 


In front of him was another titanoboa, one nearly twice the size of the one he had fought off yesterday. 


 
Not again
. Terror froze Ralph where he stood as the titanoboa reared up and leaned its head to one side then the other. Ralph saw the sinister redness of  each  eye  in  turn.  
God,  can  I  never  catch  a  break? 
 Adrenaline  washed through  his  body.  Every  detail  of  the  prehistoric  snake  looked  vivid  and sharp. He could see the tiny movements of its breathing, the flicker of each pupil dilating in the dappled light.  
Hold still
, Ralph told himself.  
Third time
 
is the charm. Maybe this time I’ll get past it without
 –


With a deafening hiss, the humongous beast surged towards him. 




12


Ralph flung the crowbar into the titanoboa’s face. It recoiled with an angry snap of its jaws, giving Ralph time to hurl himself past it. He dived away from it, rolled, then used his momentum to spring back to his feet, sprinting away from the garage and the barbed-wire fence towards the trees. He knew they offered a false shelter – one of these giant snakes had attacked him just yesterday in dense bushveld – but as the slithering rush of the giant snake behind him filled his ears, Ralph clung to the thought of getting  
away
. 


But as he tried to quicken his step, he slipped in the wet mud and fell on his  face.  The  rasping  hiss  of  the  titanoboa  filled  the  air.  With  a  moan  of terror,  Ralph  rolled  over,  staring  up  in  revulsion  at  the  sight  he  guessed would be his last: the enormous, fanged jaws of the ultimate predator snake closing around him …


But  the  titanoboa  had  stopped.  It  swayed  from  side  to  side,  like  it  had before. 


Part of Ralph’s brain was still screaming at him to get up and run, but he was  well  within  striking  range  of  the  predasaur  and  knew  that  speed couldn’t save him. Slowly, cautiously, he pushed himself back through the mud using his heels and elbows. The snake did not react. With small, slow movements,  Ralph  went  on  pushing  himself  back.  When  the  serpent  still made no move, he got gingerly to his feet and backed away further. 


The  titanoboa  seemed  to  lose  all  interest.  It  turned  away  from  him, travelling  towards  the  fence,  hissing,  easily  covering  thirty  metres  in  one


horrible burst of movement. 


Ralph  took  a  deep,  slow  breath.  Why  hadn’t  the  monster  attacked  him when he was helpless?  
Don’t push your luck
, a voice screamed in his head. 


 
Get the hell out of here! 
 But where was he meant to go? If he was going to find Robyn, he needed supplies and equipment. 


 
And  if  I’m  going  to  find  them  anywhere
,  he  thought,  
it’s  in  one  of  those
 
buildings. 


Cautiously,  Ralph  moved  forward  –  skirting  the  snake  but  still  heading towards the fence. Immediately, the titanoboa thrust its head towards Ralph, its long, horribly thick tongue flicking in and out. Ralph took a hasty step back again and the snake stopped. 


 
It’s reacting
, Ralph realised.  
My walking towards the fence sets it off, and
 
my retreating calms it down
. 


The conclusion was as weird as it was inescapable. 


He breathed it aloud. ‘This snake monster’s been  
trained
!’


For a moment he thought of the old snake charmers from India and North Africa, apparently controlling their serpents with a tune they played on their 
pungi
. But Ralph couldn’t see this brutish monster giving music the time of day; besides, he knew that snakes lacked an outer ear, they ‘heard’ through vibrations alone. 


The titanoboa eyed him balefully, then slithered away as though it had lost interest,  following  the  line  of  the  fence.  Ralph  watched  it  go  with  fearful gratitude. This one wasn’t running wild like the one that had attacked their truck.  A  thought  struck  him.  Had  it  been  trained  to  patrol  the  old  mine? 


Perhaps it was rewarded with regular food. The thing must have eaten well recently if it was only concerned with scaring away intruders, not ingesting them. 


Was it guarding whatever lay beyond the fence? 


What if that ‘whatever’ was Robyn? 


As  he  backed  towards  the  cover  of  the  trees,  Ralph  resolved  to  find another way into whatever was hidden behind the old fence. 


Forty kilometres away, through the truck’s broken windscreen, Grant stared out at the wild scenery along the mountain road. His body was wedged into the triangle formed by the edge of the seat and the passenger door, and his


eyes were beginning to flicker closed. It felt like he, Xai and Niko had been travelling  for  weeks,  dumped  by  the  poachers  like  trash  on  the  back  seat with their hands and ankles tied. Realistically, though, they could only have been in transit for twenty-four hours. 


That was more than long enough. 


First,  Rontane  had  driven  them  to  her  camp,  where  her  poacher  gang joined her to rest and regroup. A log fire cracked and sputtered, the body of a wild bush pig turning on an improvised spit above the flames. The aroma made  Grant’s  stomach  growl  like  a  cheetah.  But  there  was  no  meat  for them.  One  of  the  poachers,  a  short,  stocky  man  called  Chikondi  with  a mean  scowl,  dished  out   
phutu
,  a  traditional  South  African  porridge  made from maize. He slopped ladles of the thick gruel from a large cooking pot onto flat stones that served as basic plates. The  
phutu
 was thick and burnt. 


Niko grimaced and turned away. 


‘We’d  better  eat,’  Grant  had  told  her  softly.  ‘For  what’s  ahead,  I  reckon we’ll need our strength.’


After  resting  overnight  the  poachers  had  cleared  their  camp,  and  now travelled in convoy over the veldt and onto a narrow, winding pass. A Land Rover travelled behind the battered truck while a car led the way in front. 


Grant hoped Roland was OK; it was weird to think the group had lost its leader. From the slump of Xai’s shoulders, he was feeling Roland’s absence too. 


 
Could I step up to take charge if I needed to? 
 Grant wondered, but reached no conclusions. 


He had watched the dawn stir life into the heavy darkness, soothing away the deep bruises of the storm clouds. As the strengthening sun rose over the landscape, the dark basalt peaks of the Lebombo Mountains appeared above the haze-shrouded country, ringing the horizon like distant prison walls. A lush valley bursting with vegetation plunged away from them and the earth steamed, shaking an odour of freshness from the grasses. A golden flock of orioles  fled  noisily  as  the  truck  rumbled  past,  and  cicadas  kept  up  their throaty celebration of the rain passing. 


For  Grant,  concentrating  on  the  wildlife  was  a  way  of  keeping  his  brain from picking over their predicament. To have escaped capture for so long, to  have  triumphed  over  unnatural  predators,  to  have  expended  so  much


nerve  and  ingenuity  –  only  to  fall  prey  to  a  sickening  lowlife  like  Kali Rontane! He watched as, one hand on the wheel, the poacher driving them breakfasted on rusks and coffee from a flask. Its thick, bitter smell clashed with the wholesome, post-storm fragrance of the air. 


‘I  know  where  we’re  going,’  Xai  announced  suddenly.  ‘Yonker’s  place stands on the summit here – Gokomere Lodge.’


‘So we’re dropping in on the man who helped raze Gauda to the ground,’


said Niko bleakly. 


‘Rontane, are you working with Yonker?’ Grant demanded. 


‘Mbato arranged for pick-up from here,’ she said over her shoulder. ‘It’s a good place to land a helicopter.’


They had reached the end of the road – in more ways than one. Gokomere Lodge was a complex of buildings nestled on a plateau above the N’wanetsi River. The reception building had double-height windows at the front and back of the building, so arriving guests could look straight through to the magnificent  scenery  beyond.  Statues  of  an  elephant  and  a  giraffe  flanked the  entrance.  Through  the  large  windows  on  the  far  side  of  the  building Grant  glimpsed  the  azure  of  swimming  pools  linked  over  different  levels; the sparkling water reminded him how thirsty he was. Further down the hill were  about  a  dozen  smaller  buildings,  which  Grant  guessed  were  guest rooms, each an elegant hybrid of a traditional round hut and a spacious log cabin, each with a wide modern deck facing the river. 


The place should have been bustling with staff pampering a small number of exclusive guests, but it was eerily deserted. No trucks or transport sat in the dusty parking bays. Even the day seemed to hold its breath, the beating sun untroubled by even a whisper of a breeze. The magnificent view held Grant entranced for a moment despite his fear, but Xai was looking only at the ground, staring intently all around. 


 
He’s a Bakho tracker
, Grant realised.  
He’s reading the land. 


Rontane  was  taking  a  less  subtle  approach.  She  kicked  the  door  to  the reception  building.  ‘Yonker?’  she  bawled.  ‘Open  up.  I’ve  got  some  gifts here that need wrapping …’


There was no reply. 


‘No one home,’ Grant muttered. 


‘There were many vehicles here,’ Xai said. ‘They left in a hurry.’


Niko shrugged. ‘Maybe they were trying to outrun the virus.’


‘Chikondi,’  Rontane  called  to  the  Land  Rover  behind  them.  ‘Fetch  the battering ram. We’ll break in.’


A  few  seconds  passed,  then  the  Land  Rover  door  swung  open  and Chikondi got out. He staggered to the rear of the Land Rover like he was drunk,  but  stopped  before  he  got  there,  leaning  against  the  rear  passenger door,  panting  for  breath.  Then  he  coughed,  showering  the  window  with specks of blood. 


Grant jolted backwards. ‘He’s got it. Chikondi’s got the virus!’


Niko stared at him. ‘If Rontane’s men have been carrying that virus, any of us could have caught it too!’




13


Robyn walked on through the valley. The light hurt her eyes, and the vivid colours of leaves and flowers seemed to trail through her vision, as if her sight was taking a second to catch up with her. 


All seemed still and silent under the cruel glare of the sun. Robyn knew that dangerous game could be closing in all around her. Leopards. Cheetahs. 


Lions.  Black  mambas.  Or  perhaps  the  titanoboa  had  scared  everything away. Only the shrill call of a bird now and then told her that anything was alive here besides her. 


She’d lost track of how long she’d been walking. The coughing fits were growing more frequent. The burning ache of fatigue branded her muscles. 


The cut on her leg was red and inflamed. She’d even started hearing things


– strange bird calls and the buzz of a helicopter. She’d hidden, but seen no trace of movement in the sky. Maybe her infected leg was giving her this fever? 


Maybe it was more than that. 


Robyn staggered on. She had to find Ralph. Or find someone to help her look for him. However sick she felt, she couldn’t fail her brother. Together they might stand a chance of finding Dad and Xai and the others. On her own …


Then  she  stumbled  and  fell,  landing  in  a  stream.  The  shock  of  the  cold water  brought  Robyn  to  her  senses.  She  sipped  from  it;  it  tasted  sour  and


earthy  from  the  debris  washed  down  with  the  flood,  and  she  spat  it  back out. She was so thirsty, so hungry, felt so goddamn terrible. 


With leaden limbs, Robyn got up and made for the shade of a wall of rock. 


Trees and shrubs clung to the steep slope, sheltering against the rock face. 


But as she got closer, she blinked: what had looked to her like a seam in the rock  face  was  actually  two  overlapping  sections  of  cliff  face.  As  Robyn stepped up to the gap, she saw that it led to a narrow passage that snaked sideways into the cliff before opening into a larger cave. 


As  if  in  a  dream,  Robyn  went  inside.  There  the  air  was  cool,  and  she smelled  an  earthy  dampness  as  a  faint  breeze  blew  from  the  deeper darkness.  It  was  a  relief  after  the  heat  and  noise  of  the  bushveld  outside. 


She coughed again, the hacking sound echoing back to her as she made her way along the tunnel. And when she reached its end, Robyn gasped. 


She was in a natural stronghold deep inside the mountain: a gaping cavern with about a third at one end open to the sky. Sunlight streamed in, lighting up  plants,  a  crystal-clear  lake  of  water  to  one  side,  and  even  a  cluster  of large trees stretching up to the sun. Higher peaks to one side and tall trees like  sentries  across  the  opening  helped  to  screen  the  cavern  from  outside eyes. 


It was a hidden jewel, deep inside the mountains. 


 
A pit cave
, she realised.  
But I’ve come in from the mountainside instead of
 
down from above. 


The water looked so beautiful and inviting. Robyn felt like she was baking from the inside. She stumbled unsteadily down the slope. 


And then a figure stepped from behind a boulder in front of her. 


It  was  a  young  woman  in  a  brightly  patterned  slip.  Her  skin  was  etched with tribal marks, striping down her cheeks. Xai had similar marks on his face and chest, each signifying a pivotal moment in his childhood journey, and Robyn realised this woman must belong to the Bakho. She thought for a  moment  that  she  was  dreaming;  surely  the  land-grabbers  and  the  illegal mine owners had driven the indigenous tribes away from here? 


But  the  woman  didn’t  shimmer  and  disappear.  She  took  a  step  towards Robyn, her face grave, her eyes dark and piercing. 


‘Please,’ Robyn said, coughing again. ‘Don’t come any closer. I’m sick. I might give the sickness to you …’


The  woman  kept  coming.  She  spoke  in  a  language  that  Robyn  couldn’t understand,  but  the  clicks  she  made  told  Robyn  that  it  was  a  Khoisan dialect,  spoken  by  the  first  inhabitants  of  southern  Africa.  She  heard movement  behind  her  and  turned  –  to  find  three  tribesmen  with  lethal-looking spears blocking her way. 


‘Don’t you understand? I’m sick. Really sick!’ Robyn covered her mouth as she turned to them, trying to make her eyes focus. But the men remained shadows haunting her sight until her eyelids closed, and her knees buckled, and  she  fell  to  the  damp  earth.  She  felt  like  she  had  fallen  under  a magnifying lens, concentrating the sun’s rays. She was burning up. 


As the heat and the darkness overwhelmed her, Robyn dreamed that she might reach the soothing water in this strange paradise. The last thing she heard was the sound of the tribespeople moving closer. 


Grant  sat  in  the  cool  of  a  downstairs  guest  room,  hugging  his  knees.  His wrists throbbed from the tightness of the zip-tie cuffs, but it was the feeling of dread in his stomach that was hardest to bear. 


Because  on  the  other  side  of  the  room,  slumped  on  the  unmade  bed, moaning and drifting in and out of consciousness, was Chikondi. 


‘He’s meant to be watching us,’ Grant muttered. ‘Instead, we’re watching him.’


‘If only they hadn’t nailed shut the window from the outside,’ Xai said. 


‘So we could open it for ventilation?’ said Niko. 


Xai shook his head. ‘So we could get the hell out of here, find Roland and make a break.’


‘Pretty sure that’s why they nailed it.’ Grant leaned his head back against the wall. ‘Where’s Yonker, do you think? Did I hear him say something on the radio about bailing cos of family?’


‘That’s  right,’  Xai  agreed.  ‘Roland  and  I  heard  him  say  his  guests  were clearing out as the country’s lockdown kicked in.’


‘You’d think this place would be perfect for sitting out a pandemic,’ said Grant. ‘But I guess if he had family elsewhere who got sick …’


‘I didn’t think Yonker had any family,’ said Xai quietly. 


Then Niko banged on the door, drowning him out. ‘For God’s sake!’ she shouted. ‘Chikondi needs medical help!’


‘Then  it’s  a  good  job  you’re  a  doctor,  isn’t  it?’  Rontane’s  voice  made Grant  jump,  as  a  key  turned  in  the  door  lock.  ‘I’ve  found  a  first  aid  kit. 


Move away from the door, or you’ll be the one who needs it.’


Grant  snorted.  ‘You  think  sticking  a  band-aid  on  your  friend  is  gonna help?’


Xai  shook  his  head,  advising  Grant  to  save  his  breath,  and  shifted  away from the door, giving Chikondi a wide berth. Rontane pushed inside with a large cool box in one hand and a handgun in the other. She still wore her shades, with a neckerchief tied over her mouth and nose. 


She pointed to Chikondi. ‘He’s got your virus, hasn’t he?’


‘It’s  
not
  ours,’  Niko  insisted.  ‘It  could  be  many  things.  Lassa  fever,  for instance.’


‘You get that from rats, don’t you?’ said Grant and he turned to sneer at Rontane. ‘Hanging around with you, sounds likely.’


She  kicked  him,  her  boot’s  steel-capped  toe  making  him  wince,  then handed the box to Niko. ‘All right, doc. Make him more comfortable.’


Niko glared up at her. ‘What’s in it for us?’


‘I know you doctor types. All life’s precious, right? Even his.’ She smiled smugly. ‘And if you don’t, I’ll go give your boyfriend some more cuts and bruises to go with his cuts and bruises.’


Grant saw the hope jump into Niko’s eyes at the mention of Roland. ‘He’s all right?’


‘For now,’ said Rontane. 


‘What about Ralph and Robyn?’ Grant said. ‘Where are they?’


But Rontane just strode from the room, slamming the door behind her. A key turned in the lock. 


‘Something must have happened,’ Xai muttered. 


‘Maybe Ralph and Robyn got away?’ said Grant. ‘You think the snake …’


‘Don’t  focus  on  things  we  can’t  know,’  Xai  told  him  firmly.  ‘It’s  the possibilities here and now that count if we’re to get out of this.’


Niko lifted the lid on the cool box. ‘This is well equipped,’ she remarked, and pulled out some surgical masks. 


‘Yonker was always a good field medic,’ Xai said. 


Niko passed masks to Xai and Grant before affixing her own, the usually simple act complicated by the wrist restraints. 


‘We just have to hope that we haven’t been exposed already. If you’ll help me,  Grant,  I’ll  give  Chikondi  a  shot  of  ribavirin  –  it’s  an  antiviral  drug.’


Niko pulled a syringe from the cool box. ‘If he responds to the shot, he’s got  Lassa  fever.  If  he  hasn’t,  he  has  the  predasaur  virus  –  and  it  will  kill him.’




14


Ralph  was  moving  as  quickly  as  he  could  through  the  girdle  of  land surrounding the mine workings, making sure to keep a safe distance from the  fence.  He  figured  that  some  sort  of  technology  must  be  employed  to


‘trigger’ the titanoboa – motion sensors, or perhaps pressure sensors buried just  beneath  the  ground.  If  there  was  a  chain  of  such  sensors,  they  could transmit a vibration for the giant snake to follow, leading it to the scene of an attempted break-in. 


 
That’s what I’d do
, Ralph thought.  
Question is, how do I beat it? 
 He was looking  for  a  quick  way  in  –  some  breach  in  the  fence  that  might  allow swift access before the serpent could reach the scene. Then there would be a barbed-wire fence between the two of them and he could make his way into the  territory  beyond.  Finally,  Ralph  came  across  a  baobab  tree  leaning drunkenly towards the fence. The soil around it had washed away, either in a flood or from mining activity. Its stubby, twisted limbs, reaching for the sky  from  its  broad  trunk,  looked  more  like  roots  than  branches;  small wonder it was known as the upside-down tree. Right now, Ralph figured it could  make  a  useful  ladder,  enabling  him  to  swing  over  the  barbed  wire crowning the fence. 


Stealthily,  he  ran  over  to  the  tree,  aware  that  his  movements  might  be sending invisible signals to the titanoboa –  
I’m here! Catch me if you can! 


Ralph  scrambled  up  the  broad  trunk  and  threw  himself  into  the  branches, clambering through their tangling embrace. From here he could see a large


concrete  platform  marked  with  lights  around  its  perimeter.  
A  helipad
,  he realised,  and  remembered  the  helicopter  he’d  heard.  Were  they  operating out  of  here?  That  would  bode  well  for  finding  supplies  –  but  it  would increase the likelihood of finding trouble too. 


Whatever.  If  he  could  just  find  a  dirt  bike  so  he  could  cover  the  terrain faster, or a four-by-four – something that might afford him a little protection from game and monsters – then he’d stand a much better chance of finding Robyn. 


Once he was clear of the fence he dropped down from the tree, his ankles jarring despite the soft mud that had broken his fall. His elation at getting over the fence was met by the realisation that climbing out again was going to  be  a  hell  of  a  lot  harder.  But  with  luck  he  would  find  equipment somewhere  –  cutting  equipment,  perhaps,  that  would  allow  him  out  with whatever spoils he could find. 


No  one  had  come  running  at  the  sound  of  him  landing.  The  compound seemed just as deserted on this side of the fence as it was out there in the wilderness. 


Cautiously,  looking  all  around,  Ralph  made  for  the  nearest  garage  and prayed his luck would hold. 


The guest room in Gokomere Lodge was becoming stuffy and warm. Grant distracted  himself  by  staring  out  of  the  window  at  the  magnificent  view down  to  the  N’wanetsi  River.  Slow  hours  had  been  punctuated  all  too regularly by Chikondi’s hacking cough. Niko was bent over the sofa where the sick poacher lay, frowning above her mask, blotting the sweat from his face with a folded cloth. As for Xai, he was still sitting on the floor by the door, seemingly immune to the stress of time passing. Grant supposed that his soldier days had prepared him for long periods of confinement. 


‘I’d  have  thought  that  a  helicopter  would  be  here  for  us  by  now,’  Niko said. ‘Given how hard Mbato’s been on our backs.’


‘We  blew  up  the  last  one,’  Grant  reminded  her.  ‘Besides,  Mbato  can’t admit  to  paying  poachers  to  catch  us.  Picking  us  up,  taking  us  back  …  I guess it has to be done by the book.’


Chikondi groaned, a long and painful noise. 


‘There’s  nothing  I  can  do,’  Niko  said  hoarsely,  turning  away.  ‘He’s  not responding  to  treatment  –  because  there  isn’t  any.  He’s  got  the  virus,  I’m certain.’


Grant felt a chill, despite the stuffy heat. ‘I hope these masks work. If they don’t –’


They all jumped as something clanged against the windowpane. 


‘What the hell was that?’ Grant hissed, gazing out. There was no sign of life through the glass. ‘Maybe a bird flew into the window?’


As  he  looked  down,  he  frowned.  The  long  nails  hammered  into  the window  frame  to  stop  it  opening  had  been  removed.  ‘When  did  that happen?’ he whispered, trying the window. It opened a crack. 


Niko gasped. ‘How did you do that?’


Xai  quickly  got  up  and  joined  Grant.  ‘Someone  must  have  done  it  from the outside.’


‘But I’ve been standing here,’ Grant said. ‘Didn’t see anything.’


‘Perhaps  the  bang  on  the  window  was  to  get  your  attention,’  Xai  said. 


‘Maybe not all the guests left after all!’


Grant started to push the window open a little more, then he heard the dull buzz of a helicopter approaching. ‘Oh, no,’ he whispered. ‘I guess that’s not a late holiday booking.’


The  door  was  kicked  open.  Rontane  swaggered  in,  a  revolver  in  each hand. The mask over her mouth couldn’t disguise her sneer. ‘Time to go.’


‘You can’t hand us over without taking precautions,’ Niko said. ‘We may be infectious. We could give those soldiers the virus and they could spread it –’


‘Let  them,’  said  Rontane,  gesturing  for  them  to  move  towards  the  door. 


‘As long as I get my money.’


Grant stabbed a finger at Chikondi. ‘Your friend is going to die!’


‘So? Everybody dies,’ Rontane said coldly. 


Another of Rontane’s men ran in, a rangy character in a red tracksuit top and khaki shorts. ‘He’s gone,’ the man said. ‘Ballantyne’s gone!’


Niko actually gasped out loud. ‘What?’


Rontane rounded on her pet thug, jabbing a revolver in his face. ‘How the hell  can  he  be  gone,  Femi?  He  was  tied  up  in  a  room  with  the  window


nailed shut from the outside!’


Excitement  stirring  his  insides,  Grant  thought  of  the  way  their  own window had been freed. That had come too late to help them, but if Roland had got out … perhaps there was a chance for them all? 


Rontane turned on Xai. ‘What do you know of this?’


‘Nothing,’ he said calmly. 


‘How about you?’ Femi thrust his gun into Grant’s face. 


Grant  did  his  best  not  to  show  he  was  intimidated.  ‘You  saw  Niko’s reaction. She couldn’t fake that.’


‘And you know we were locked in this room,’ said Niko. ‘How could we know anything?’


‘We’ll find Ballantyne,’ Femi growled. ‘We’ll take this whole place apart.’


‘In  front  of  Mbato’s  men,  you  idiot?’  Rontane  hissed.  ‘I  should  maybe invite them in to wait, make them a cup of rooibos, huh?’ She grabbed Niko by the hair. ‘If we threaten this one, Ballantyne will have to surrender.’


Niko gasped as she was dragged out of the room. Femi pushed Xai outside and  motioned  with  the  gun  for  Grant  to  follow.  Hands  raised,  he  obeyed. 


More  poachers  were  waiting  outside,  automatic  weapons  held  ready. 


Through the full-height glass walls of the reception lounge, Grant could see the helicopter growing larger in the pale blue sky, a giant mosquito zeroing in on its prey. How many soldiers were on board? The stakes were high –


life or death – and Grant knew he had to be ready. 


Rontane kicked the back of Niko’s calves so she fell to her knees on the patio outside. Another poacher came out and gripped Niko by the back of the  neck,  leaving  Rontane  free  to  stalk  about.  ‘Ballantyne!’  she  bellowed over  the  rush  of  rotors.  ‘Come  out  now  or  I  blow  off  your  lady-love’s kneecaps.’


Grant clenched his fists. The trees began to blow as the helicopter readied itself to land. 


‘I mean it!’ Rontane shouted. ‘I get as much for her in pieces as I do for her intact. You like her cos she’s pretty, right? Give it up, or she won’t stay pretty for long.’


The copter swung in towards the landing spot. As it turned, Grant saw that its  door  was  open,  revealing  black-uniformed  figures  with  rifles  at  the


ready. Rontane turned angrily and held up a hand to Femi, warning him to stay back. At the same time, the rest of her men gathered in a loose group at the  edge  of  the  open  area  outside  the  building,  weapons  raised,  looking around for Roland. 


The  copter  landed.  Soldiers  spewed  out.  Grant  held  his  breath,  felt  the sweat  trickle  down  his  back.  Then  gunfire  raked  the  helicopter,  sending sparks shooting from its armoured carapace. Someone had opened fire! The cockpit windscreen bloomed with little white scars as bullets ground at the glass. 


‘No!’ Rontane shouted. But any other protests were cut off as the soldiers returned fire. Two of the poachers were cut down, dancing in the chatter of bullets.  Niko’s  captor  was  hit  and  fell  backwards.  Niko  threw  herself forward,  flat  down  on  the  patio.  At  the  same  time,  Rontane  turned  and sprinted for the reception area. The full-length windows shattered under the onslaught of bullets before the Queen of the Poachers could reach shelter, and she fell in a hail of broken glass. More poachers with guns appeared, firing wildly, driving the soldiers back into defensive positions around the helipad. 


At the same time, Xai raised his arms as if in surrender. But then he placed his palms together and swept his arms downward hard, in a cutting motion. 


As his hands came level with his stomach, he opened out his elbows and the cable  ties  snapped  under  the  dynamic  force.  The  next  moment,  Xai  had snatched  the  gun  from  Femi’s  hand  and  shoved  him  hard,  propelling  him into the flying glass. 


‘Down, Grant!’ Xai yelled. 


As  the  rattle  of  guns  went  on  tearing  at  the  silence,  Grant  had  already flung himself down behind a heavy oak coffee table. He watched in horror as  Femi  turned  even  as  he  fell,  revealing  a  vicious  knife  in  his  hand.  He hurled it, and it struck Xai’s gun arm. Xai grunted as the blade bit deep; he lost his grip on the gun as he staggered back, hiding behind the statue of the elephant. One tusk was blown into fragments by a stray bullet. 


Wild-eyed, Femi was about to get up and retrieve his weapon. But Grant shoved  the  coffee  table  across  the  wooden  floor  into  Femi’s  legs,  and  the poacher sprawled to the floor. 


Before Grant could get up to join Xai, a soldier in a ballistic face mask ran into  the  room,  holding  Niko  in  front  of  him  like  a  human  shield.  The soldier’s gun swung down. 


Grant found himself staring down the barrel. 




15


‘Grant,  move!’  The  soldier  tore  off  his  face  mask  –  to  reveal  the  battered features  of  Roland  Ballantyne.  Grant  realised  numbly  that  Niko  wasn’t being used as a human shield. Roland was shielding her with  
his
 body. 


As more bullets sprayed the reception area, Xai ducked out from behind the statue to return fire, the machine gun back in his bloody hands, the knife still embedded in his arm. Grant scrambled to hunker down behind him, and Roland half-carried Niko there. 


‘What happened?’ Grant demanded. ‘Why’d the poachers open fire on the helicopter?’


‘They didn’t. I did,’ Roland panted. ‘Made the Recces think the poachers were firing on them, so they’d fire back. Might even the odds a little for us.’


‘Bold thinking.’ Xai jerked his head back towards the room where they’d been  held  with  Chikondi.  ‘Now,  fall  back.  We  can  get  out  through  the window there. I’ll cover you.’


Roland clapped a hand on Xai’s shoulder and removed the knife. ‘Go to it, little rogue.’


Xai let off a stream of gunfire through the broken windows as Grant raced to the bedroom. Roland followed with Niko. 


She hugged him. ‘Who helped you get out?’


‘I don’t know.’ Roland used the knife he’d pulled from Xai’s shoulder to saw  through  the  plastic  cuffs  on  Grant’s  wrists.  ‘But  I  found  this  uniform


and  the  gun  stowed  beneath  the  opened  window.  They  must  belong  to Yonker.’


A blood-curdling scream came from outside. 


Roland pointed to the window. ‘Shift!’


Grant climbed out and dropped to the ground. He could hear shouting and gunfire. Seconds later, Xai had dropped down beside him. Roland lowered Niko out through the window and Grant helped her down. 


There was a crash from inside as the door to the room was kicked open. 


Roland jumped down. 


‘Rontane?’ Chikondi’s hoarse, delirious shout came from inside the room. 


‘What’s happening?’


A single gunshot was his answer. Then he was silent. 


‘Stay close,’ Roland hissed to his group. They set off across the manicured lawn, Roland swinging the rifle from side to side to cover the deck and the land sloping down towards the river. Grant and Niko followed, while Xai took up the rear. Grant risked a look behind and saw a shadow appear at the open window. Xai fired and the soldier fell back. 


‘Come  on!’  Grant  ran  with  Niko  to  where  Roland  was  sheltering  at  the corner of the building. 


A man’s voice rang out from behind nearby thorn trees. ‘Mbato must be trying to take the prisoners without paying. Kill them on sight.’


‘Dammit,’ Roland muttered. 


Even as he spoke, bullets struck the wall beside Grant. He dived for cover. 


Roland  swung  around  and  fired  three  shots  into  the  bushes  while  Xai grabbed  Niko’s  arm  and  charged  away  with  her  for  the  cover  of  nearby trees. 


‘With  me,  Grant!’  Roland  shouted  as  he  darted  away,  firing  again,  this time at two poachers who’d appeared from behind one of the guest villas. 


One of them hurled something before they dropped. 


Grant swore as a rusty metal pineapple landed in the neat grass ahead of him. ‘Grenade!’ he yelled. 


On instinct, he darted wildly to his left. Too late, he realised that Roland was  racing  to  the  right,  trailing  Xai  and  Niko  for  the  cover  of  a  low boundary  wall.  Grant  skidded  to  a  stop,  about  to  change  direction.  Time


seemed  to  slow.  How  many  seconds  left  until  the  grenade  blew?  Grant started to run again, away from the others. He dived over a large ornamental bush in the lawn. 


He was still in mid-air when the grenade exploded. 


Ralph was trying to stay positive, but there seemed to be nothing here that might  help  him  find  Robyn:  no  tools,  no  supplies,  no  vehicles.  And definitely  no  signs  that  his  sister  had  been  here.  The  buildings  he’d investigated so far had been empty save for the lingering stink of musk and filth.  Animals  had  been  kept  here  at  some  point.  From  the  scratches  and claw marks in the concrete, they had been wild animals. 


This  place  might  have  been  a  mine  once,  but  someone  had  clearly repurposed it. All those fossils … Could this be where Gerhard had started his predasaur research? 


In one building, half the wall had been clawed away, and the twisted metal remains of cages were testament to the strength of the beasts they must once have contained. In another, Ralph found a pile of weathered shovels and an ominous carpet of bleached bones and skulls; from the looks of them, they had  belonged  to  herbivores  like  impala  or  wildebeest.  Many  of  the  bones had been snapped in two. 


 
What  happened  here? 
  he  thought  grimly.  
What  is  that  titanoboa  still
 
protecting? 


Ralph carried the sturdiest shovel with him as he followed rusted railway tracks through the silent yard. His mouth was dry and his limbs ached, but he  kept  going.  The  battered  mine  cars  that  once  had  carried  ore  from  the main works stood abandoned in the sidings. No birds called out overhead. 


Even the cicadas had stopped singing. Water from the flood lay pooled in hollows,  perfect  silvered  mirrors  to  the  late  day’s  sky  and  lengthening shadows.  It  was  as  if  nature  didn’t  know  what  to  do  here,  and  had  either fled or frozen. 


Then Ralph froze too. He wiped his eyes. ‘What the hell?’


The rails didn’t lead to the mouth of a tunnel or a storage depot, as Ralph had expected. The rocky soil bled into black tarmac and the tracks came to an  end  on  a  stretch  of  modern  street.  Ralph  found  himself  gazing  up  at  a red-brick hotel with an office block beside it. Tall, ornate streetlamps stood


either side of the street like sentries. Across the street stood a florist, a pawn shop and a comic-book store. It was as if a piece of a city had just fallen from  the  sky.  The  road  ran  on  to  a  T  junction  with  a  beachfront  beyond, complete with funfair. A big wheel and a carousel turned in eerie silence. 


There was no sign of anyone. 


 
Am I hallucinating or something? 
 Frowning, Ralph stooped and picked up a  rock  from  the  ground.  Then  he  tossed  it  at  the  beachfront.  The  stone bounced in mid-air and fell to the ground. 


‘It’s not real,’ he muttered. The view ahead of him looked like a generated 3D image.  
Like something out of a video game
, Ralph realised.  
This has got
 
Gerhard’s fingerprints all over it
. He tossed a stone up in front of one of the streetlamps  and  watched  its  shadow  swoop  across  the  beachfront  like  a meteor. Yes, the streetlamps must be sophisticated projectors. 


Suddenly he heard the pounding of heavy footsteps, enough to shake the ground.  A  woolly  mammoth  charged  out  from  the  projected  background, the mismatch of scale making it seem even more enormous. Its tusks were bloody and puncture wounds stained its shaggy hide. It stared at Ralph with bloodshot  red  eyes,  trunk  curling,  afraid  and  in  shock.  Then  its  mouth opened and it trumpeted defiantly. Ralph staggered backwards, realising it meant to charge at him. 


Then  two  more  creatures  coiled  out  from  whatever  space  lay  hidden behind the backdrop. Jet-black titanoboas, way smaller than the ones he’d met  but  still  twice  as  long  as  he  was,  their  meaty  tongues  flicking  out between ivory fangs. 


A shadow fell over Ralph. Two camera drones had appeared, circling like birds of prey. Taking up position to capture the action about to unfold. 


Ralph turned to run, but knew it was too late. The mammoth was already lumbering towards him, the snakes flanking it. 


There was nowhere to hide. 




16


As  the  grenade  detonated,  the  paradise  of  Gokomere  Lodge  disintegrated into hell – and Grant was almost taken along for the ride. The blast carried him through the air, deafened him, and punched the breath from his lungs. 


He found himself on his back in mud, staring up at a cloud of blue-black smoke, his ears ringing. His legs felt burning hot. He looked down and saw little welts and burns patterning his legs up to his thighs. He gritted his teeth against the pain. Where were the others? He glimpsed movement through the smoke. Was that Roland racing to reach him – or someone else? 


Desperate but determined, Grant scrambled up and began a limping zigzag through a complex of guest chalets. He caught a whiff of chlorine and saw that beyond them stood an enormous gymnasium beside the outdoor pools he’d seen earlier. There was a smaller building too, which he guessed must be a pump house, keeping the water clean. The gym must allow guests to work  out  with  the  most  incredible  panoramic  views,  Grant  supposed,  but more importantly to him, it meant the hope of changing rooms and lockers. 


Perhaps he could find a hiding place? In any case, he had no time to think; he had to  
run
. 


And  he  did  run,  straight  into  a  black  ops  soldier  coming  the  other  way from behind the gym building. 


Grant froze as the man towered over him. He was about to dive through the man’s legs, try to push him off balance, when a small stone flew through the air. It struck the soldier on the temple, and he collapsed. 


Grant stared. There, at the far corner of the gym building, stood a girl a few  years  younger  than  he  was,  wearing  khakis  and  a  plain  shirt.  Her cheeks  were  covered  with  tribal  markings  and  she  wore  her  hair  close-cropped and tightly curled. Grant saw the dark Y of a catapult in one hand; that explained how she’d brought down the unsuspecting soldier. 


‘Hurry,’ she hissed and beckoned him sharply. 


With no other options available, Grant ran after her. 


In the make-believe street that stood in the middle of the mineworks, Ralph ran for one of the old mine cars. It was too far away, and would offer little cover, but there was nothing else to try. 


The mammoth increased its speed as the serpents came closer. The camera drones bobbed down for a closer look, as if sensing that the kill was close. 


Ralph pushed himself harder but then was nearly thrown off his feet by the shockwaves from a crashing impact behind him. The mammoth bellowed in rage and pain. 


Ralph risked a look over his shoulder, and saw that the mammoth was on the ground. The huge black serpents were writhing and undulating around its  legs,  holding  it  fast,  crushing  it.  The  attacking  titanoboas  hooked  their hefty fangs into the mammoth’s neck, piercing its hairy flesh. Ralph turned away, revolted. 


‘And CUT!’ came a high, nasal voice that turned Ralph’s stomach to ice. 


He looked further down the fake street. 


Josef Gerhard stepped into view through the projected backdrop, a sleek tablet in his hand and two armed guards behind him. 


‘You,’ Ralph breathed, clenching his fists. He’d known that Gerhard was behind  all  this,  but  it  was  still  a  shock  to  be  back  face  to  face  with  him. 


‘What is all this?’


‘It’s  my  very  important  research  and  development  tech  centre.’  Gerhard smiled.  ‘I’m  actually  as  surprised  to  see  you  as  you  must  be  to  see  me. 


Mbato and I have spent so long trying to track down your little tribe, and here you are, right under my nose. Any more of you here?’


‘No,’ Ralph said. ‘But if you find them, tell them I said hi.’


Gerhard’s  grin  was  gloating  as  he  took  in  Ralph’s  grubby,  bruised appearance. ‘You have been in the wars, haven’t you? Still. You can relax


now. Nowhere left to run.’ He nodded back towards the make-believe street. 


‘Perhaps you’d care to progress a little further through one of my games?’


‘No, thanks,’ said Ralph. ‘So what is this place? Thought you looked after the predasaurs in your private park.’


‘That is so. But they were created here.’ He bestowed a smile on the two technicians.  ‘I  insist  on  visiting  here  by  helicopter  when  my  team  tell  me they’ve made vital breakthroughs.’


Ralph  gestured  to  the  fake  street.  ‘Breakthroughs  in  making  your  video game cut-scenes even sicker?’


‘Setting  up  a  scene  and  relying  on  a  predasaur’s  savagery  to  carry  the action can be hit or miss.’ Gerhard flicked his fingers across the surface of the tablet. ‘The breakthrough here is one of  
control
.’ The titanoboas paused, then  squirmed  away  from  the  miserable  corpse  of  the  mammoth.  They circled Ralph, eyeing him spitefully. 


‘I  direct  everything,  Ralph.’  Gerhard’s  bulging  eyes  didn’t  blink. 


‘Everything.’


Ralph  couldn’t  hide  his  horror.  This  was  far  beyond  how  Gerhard  had controlled  the  cave  hyenas  that  had  hunted  them  in  his  secret  killing grounds.  There  he’d  used  drones  that  could  spray  scents  to  attract,  or deliver electric shocks to repel. The way he controlled these titanoboas was precise and terrifying. 


‘Stimulating  certain  muscles  helps  human  beings  to  walk  again  after  a spinal  injury,’  Gerhard  went  on.  ‘It’s  a  similar  principle.  Subjects  react automatically within a set of allowed actions. They have no choice.’


‘I  guess  something  that  slithers  on  its  belly  is  easier  to  control  than something  with  four  legs,’  said  Ralph,  desperate  to  keep  Gerhard  talking while  he  tried  to  think  of  an  escape  plan.  ‘But  isn’t  a  giant  guard  snake going to draw attention to this place? Word spreads. You’ll have a bunch of hunters on your doorstep.’


‘I  trust  that  will  be  the  case.  And  my  drones  will  be  ready  to  film  their deaths,’  said  Gerhard  calmly.  ‘Their  last  moments  –  suitably  enhanced  –


will  contribute  to  the  next  and  biggest  ever  version  of   
Predasaur
.  I’m calling it  
The Serpent’s Lair
.’ He opened his arms, as if expecting rapturous applause. 


Ralph  just  stood  and  stared.  ‘I  didn’t  see  cameras  when  your  snake attacked the poachers.’


‘Some  of  my  earliest  creations  escaped  into  the  wild  before  full  control could be established.’ Gerhard gave a mirthless smile, and Ralph felt a pang of fear. How many more were out in the wild – perhaps even now stalking his injured sister? 


‘Today, these beasts are entirely under my command.  
The  Serpent’s  Lair
 has lifelike graphics, even grislier action – and a wonderful storyline, about a family of dangerous ecoterrorists who are consumed by their own genetic creations …’


Ralph narrowed his eyes. ‘So, you’ve already tricked the real world into believing  we’re  the  bad  guys,  and  now  you’re  basing  your  whole  game around it. Even though  
you’re
 the one who let the virus loose!’ He glanced nervously at the titanoboas. ‘Is it all predasaurs that carry it? No, can’t be. 


You’d all be infected by now.’


‘Stefan  was  the  only  member  of  staff  affected,’  Gerhard  revealed.  ‘The fool got himself bitten handling a specimen of  
Desmodus draculae
 – a type of vampire bat resurrected from the early Holocene period. I had the work incinerated – or rather, your father did. Right?’ Gerhard winked and wagged a  finger.  ‘I’m  the  one  who’ll  clean  up  after  your  terrible,  destructive mistakes. And  
you
 are going to help me.’


‘You can go to –’


‘I know where your sister is.’


Everything stopped for Ralph. 


‘Robyn is alive. And if you behave yourself, you might just see her again.’


Gerhard  smirked.  ‘If  you 
  really
  behave  yourself,  you  might  even  see  her alive.’


Ralph  stared  at  him,  trying  to  control  his  breathing  as  the  titanoboas slithered  closer  and  their  hissing  grew  louder  in  his  ears.  
Rob’s  alive
,  he thought,  
and Gerhard’s my only chance of finding her
. 


Slowly, he raised his hands in surrender. The snakes stared at him stonily, eyes narrowed, tongues flickering. 


As  if  tiring  of  his  audience,  Gerhard  turned  away,  tapping  at  his  tablet. 


The titanoboas reared up and edged closer. Ralph recoiled and moved away


a  few  metres.  One  of  the  serpentine  monsters  moved  around  to  his  right, and he retreated further. 


 
They’re herding me
, he realised with a chill.  
But where to? 




17


At  Gokomere  Lodge,  Grant,  too,  had  no  idea  where  he  was  being  taken. 


The  girl  with  the  catapult  led  him  around  the  back  of  the  gymnasium  to where the pool stretched out towards a flight of stone steps. The steps led down  to  a  smaller  infinity  pool  surrounded  by  bamboo  sun  loungers  on  a raised  deck  where  guests  could  rest  gazing  out  towards  herds  of  animals drinking from the river far below, away from the carnage here. The girl led Grant  not  onto  the  raised  deck  but  beneath  it.  Then  she  thumped  her shoulder  against  the  timber  panelling  beside  the  pool  wall,  and  a  section swung inwards on concealed hinges. 


‘Secret hiding place?’ Grant whispered. 


‘Storage.  Pool  chemicals,’  the  girl  informed  him.  She  ducked  into  the narrow,  shadowed  space  beyond  and  Grant  squeezed  in  behind  her.  The sharp reek of disinfectant was almost overpowering, but for the first time in forever  he  felt  safe.  Water  gurgled  above  and  around  them  as  the  pumps kept  the  water  circulating  from  the  overflow.  The  noise  would  help  hide them too. 


‘Thank  you,’  Grant  panted  as  the  girl  quickly  pushed  the  wooden  panel closed again. ‘Who are you?’


‘Moth,’ the girl said. ‘My name is Moth.’


‘What are you doing here? Where did you –’


‘Be quiet, please.’ There were tiny gaps between the wooden planks, and she knelt on the dusty ground to put her eye to them. 


Grant  copied  her.  His  view  was  severely  restricted,  but  he  glimpsed figures running and heard gunfire. Someone shouted, ‘This way!’


‘I  need  to  find  my  friends,’  Grant  muttered.  He  placed  a  hand  on  the hinged panel. 


Moth noticed the movement and snatched his arm. ‘No.’


‘You don’t get it. I need to at least try.’ Grant swallowed hard. ‘A couple of  weeks  ago,  I  didn’t  go  after  this  boy,  Luke,  and  …  he  died.  Alone.’


Images  of  the  lanky  boy,  screaming  as  he  ran  across  the  rocks,  terrified, burned  through  Grant’s  brain  and  he  got  back  to  his  feet.  ‘I  can’t  let  that happen to anyone else –’


‘You’ve got no weapons.’


Grant  nodded  to  the  handmade  catapult  she  clutched.  ‘What  about  your catty? You brought down that soldier with a single rock.’


‘That was a lucky shot. You’ve got rocks  
in
 your head if you think we can bring down everyone. I know the land here – I was trying to get you guys away.’  She  looked  at  him,  watching  carefully  while  he  got  his  emotions under control again. ‘I can help you guys. It was me who took the nails out of the window, Grant.’


‘You know my name?’


‘Heard  you,  didn’t  I?  Standing  at  the  window.  Not  noticing  me.’  She smiled slyly. ‘Nobody ever notices Moth.’


‘You were hiding here too …’ Grant considered the tribal markings on the girl’s cheeks: she looked like she belonged to an indigenous tribe. ‘Moth. 


Are  you  from  one  of  the  local  San  communities?  Is  Moth  short  for Motholeli?’


‘Yes!’  She  smiled,  dark  eyes  glittering  in  the  lantern  light.  ‘How  would you know?’


‘My dad leads the Green Freedom Party. He’s been trying to get land back for the San. And my friends and I, we’ve been looking for you, for help –’


‘Your  friend  Xai  is  of  the  local  people,  the  Bakho,’  Moth  broke  in.  ‘He doesn’t know the place of hiding?’


‘No. It’s kind of been a while for him …’ Grant flinched as gunshots rang out, again and again. 


Moth  turned  quickly  back  to  the  tiny  cracks  in  the  planks,  alert  and frowning.  Heavy  footsteps  tapped  overhead.  Recces  or  poachers,  it  was impossible to tell. 


‘Pray they don’t find  
our
 place of hiding,’ Moth said. 


Robyn  woke  in  darkness.  She  breathed  in  cool,  slightly  damp  air.  For  a moment she thought she was back in the cave she’d found after the flood, that she’d dreamed her stumbling ordeal through the post-flood landscape. 


But no, she was lying on something softer. Her fingers strayed to her side and  found  cotton  sheets,  stretched  over  a  stiff-sprung  mattress.  She  heard the gentle hum and rush of machines. Was  
this
 the dream? She prayed not: her throat was sore and her head ached, but she felt stronger than she had in ages. Even her leg no longer hurt. 


Robyn  opened  her  eyes  and  raised  her  head.  A  motion  sensor  registered the movement and her surroundings showed in soft topaz light. 


She  was  in  a  hospital  bed  in  a  large  cave  filled  with  modern  medical equipment. The floor was smooth poured concrete, but the walls were dark rock. Electrical cables snaked along the floor from outside the door to the medical monitors and other equipment on one side of the chamber. 


She  felt  a  tremor  of  fear.  
Gerhard
,  she  thought.  
He  must’ve  found  me
. 


 
Picked  me  up.  Taken  me  …  Taken  me  where?  Where’s  Ralph  and  Dad? 


 
Everyone …


Robyn saw that her shoes were at the foot of the bed. She got out of bed, slipped them on and peeled off the sticky patches holding medical sensors against  her  skin.  The  world  spun  in  a  whirl  of  nausea  but  she  closed  her eyes  and  breathed  deeply  and  it  passed.  Then,  carefully,  she  stepped  out from the cave into a rough-hewn corridor. 


There were patterns on the walls, ancient rusty inks and etchings showing spindly  human  figures  dancing  around  oversized  buffalo  and  wildebeest. 


One group held what looked like spears to ward off a pack of hyenas. 


 
Been  there,  done  that
,  thought  Robyn  with  a  shudder.  She  assumed  the drawings  depicted  the  Bakho.  Her  eyes  lingered  on  one  of  the  human figures,  which  had  been  drawn  larger  than  the  rest  –  seen  from  the  side, lying on his back, he wore a headdress, and one arm was raised in the air as if pointing to heaven. 


 
A sangoma
, Robyn realised; a shaman, or witch doctor, as they used to be called. When she’d been small, Xai used to tell her and Ralph tales of the sangoma  he’d  known  as  a  child,  back  when  he  still  lived  with  the  tribe. 


They would ingest poison to receive visions: truths to guide his people. 


 
The sangoma taught us that pain makes us strong
, Xai had told them.  
That
 
suffering can bring wisdom if you look in the right way
. 


‘I  should  be  the  strongest,  smartest  person  around  in  that  case,’  Robyn muttered, pressing on through the gloomy tunnel. 


At the turning, she saw someone ahead of her and froze. It was a young woman,  wearing  bright  prints.  The  woman  spoke  in  Bakho  –  Robyn couldn’t  understand  the  words,  but  she  understood  the  urgency  on  the young woman’s face. 


‘I know you,’ Robyn said quietly. ‘I saw you … when I had the fever …’


The woman started towards Robyn. Alarmed, Robyn turned and retraced her steps. But her way was blocked by another figure: a bear of a man with an  intricate  pattern  of  scars  beaded  under  his  eyes  and  across  his cheekbones.  He  wore  a  patchwork  outfit,  a  white  tunic  and  kilt  overlaid with scraps of colourful geometric prints, cheetah fur and leather. His arms were tied with feathers and tufts from the manes of lions. 


Robyn  held  her  ground,  staring  up  at  him.  ‘You’re  a  sangoma,’  she whispered. It was as if, by simply thinking of them, she had conjured one in this weird underground place. 


The sangoma gazed down at Robyn. Then a brilliant smile spread over his face.  ‘You’re  up  and  around!’  he  said  in  perfect  English.  ‘You  know,  you had us all very worried here in the settlement.’


‘A Bakho settlement?’ Robyn felt a spark of hope. 


‘Correct,’ the sangoma said. ‘And you may call me Senosi. We have a lot of questions for you.’


‘Snap,’ Robyn said, suddenly suspicious again. ‘Like, how do you know my name?’


‘Ah.’ The sangoma smiled. ‘It was given to me by our other unexpected visitor.’


‘What?’  Robyn’s  heart  seemed  to  freeze  as  her  brain  processed  Senosi’s words. ‘Who …’


‘Hey, Rob,’ came a voice behind her. 


Robyn swung around to see a lanky blond boy standing next to the young woman. His arm was in a sling and his face scarred and swollen, but she recognised him immediately. She just didn’t believe what she was seeing. 


‘Luke!’ she breathed. 




18


‘It’s you.’ Robyn stared at him in utter disbelief. ‘Luke van Rok!’


‘Well,  what’s  left  of  me,’  Luke  said.  Then  he  smiled,  and  Robyn  ran  to him, and seized him in a hug. 


‘Ouch! Careful, I’m a mess …’


‘Oh, God, so am I.’ Robyn laughed through her tears, sniffing. She’d been so certain that Luke had been slaughtered by the cave hyenas Gerhard had sent after them. They’d all heard his screams. How could he be alive? How could he be  
here
? ‘I don’t believe it. We were sure you had to be dead.’


‘Those hyena things tore into me like cheap dog meat,’ Luke said. ‘I’ve never known so much pain. I …’ He stared at her. ‘I should never have run like that. Shouldn’t have tried to bargain with Gerhard, but …’


‘You were scared,’ Robyn said. ‘I get it.’ She felt dizzy. ‘Luke …’


‘Easy, now.’ Luke pulled awkwardly away from her but kept a hand on her hip to steady her. ‘You’ve been real sick. They said you had the virus.’


‘But I can’t have,’ Robyn argued. ‘I’m still here.’


‘It is a truly remarkable story,’ said Senosi. ‘And I will tell it to you once you rest. There will be time to talk with your friend soon.’


OceanofPDF.com













Luke  nodded.  ‘Senosi’s  been  really  good  to  me  –  the  whole  tribe  have.’


He gave her a hopeful smile. ‘We’re safe here.’


‘But I’ve got to find Ralph. Grant, Dad, and …’ Again, she felt dizzy. ‘My head feels so weird.’


‘You’ve  been  through  a  lot,’  said  Senosi.  He  spoke  to  the  young tribeswoman  in  Bakho,  and  she  nodded,  taking  Robyn  by  the  arm.  ‘You must rest now.’


Luke  tried  to  take  Robyn’s  other  arm  but  Senosi  shook  his  head.  ‘You must rest too, young man.’


‘Aw, c’mon,’ Luke protested. ‘I’ve been resting for weeks …’


‘Your wounds were badly infected. You’ve made great improvement but you  still  need  rest,  just  as  she  does.’  Senosi  smiled,  but  his  manner  was firm. ‘Please return to your bed.’


‘I  have  to  find  Ralph.  I  can’t  stay,’  Robyn  said  weakly.  ‘He’s  out  there, and my dad and Grant and Niko and Xai, they were taken by poachers …’


She leaned against the wall, shivering. ‘I  
can’t
 stay.’


‘I think you’ll find you can do little else,’ Senosi said softly. ‘Don’t worry. 


My  people  know  these  lands  as  well  as  you  know  your  own  home.  If  a stranger  walks  here,  they  will  find  him.’  Again,  he  spoke  in  his  native tongue, and the Bakho woman helped steer Robyn back to her room. 


At  the  turn  in  the  corridor,  Robyn  glanced  back.  Senosi  and  Luke  were watching her. Luke gave her a little wave, but his smile was so sad. Like a little boy being left behind by his parents, trying to be brave. 


Senosi was smiling too. He seemed pleased with himself. 


Grant’s eyes were pretty much glued to the cracks in the treated timbers. He watched  as  two  special  ops  troops  came  to  take  away  the  unconscious soldier Moth had dropped. 


‘Looks like Kranz got  
bliksemed
 by this.’ One of the soldiers held up the rock  Moth  had  used.  ‘Amateur  hour  –  lucky  for  that  muppet.  Collins  and Adebisi were killed.’


‘Rest of the poachers taken care of, bruh,’ said the other soldier. ‘No sign of Ballantyne, Xai or the rest. The whole mission’s gone west.’


‘One of the poachers told me that Ballantyne’s kids were meant to get here but never arrived.’ The woman shrugged. ‘Probably killed in the flood.’


‘Probably is not good enough. The boss is gonna flip.’


‘Maybe that’s why the poachers tried to kill us before we could kill them,’


said the woman. ‘But if the targets are alive, we’ll find them from the air.’


The two of them carried Kranz’s body away. 


‘They didn’t get Roland, Xai and Niko,’ Grant whispered. ‘But Robyn …


Ralph …’


‘Maybe they found the Bakho,’ Moth said. Grant hoped she was right. 


They  waited  until  they  heard  the  copter  taking  off.  Grant  opened  the hinged panel to look outside. ‘You may know the land but I don’t. Is there somewhere we can go to look over the whole area without standing out?’


‘Bokmakierie  Villa’s  got  the  best  view,’  Moth  answered.  ‘The  fanciest guests stay there. It’s back up the slope and off to the right.’


Looking  all  around,  Grant  followed  Moth  as  she  led  the  way,  her  catty held up and ready to shoot. Grant saw the bodies of poachers lying on the ground and shuddered. 


Soon they reached a spacious wood-fronted building with large windows, nestled elegantly into the landscape. 


‘Bokmakierie  Villa,’  Grant  murmured.  ‘The  glass  hasn’t  been  shot  out. 


That’s got to be a good sign, right?’


‘But the door’s been forced.’ Moth pointed. ‘Someone got here ahead of us.’


Looking more closely, Grant could see splintered wood in the frame near the  front  door  handle.  ‘The  soldiers  would’ve  searched  here,  I  guess,’  he said. ‘Is there a back way in?’


Moth kept low as she moved past flower beds and ornamental bushes. The back  of  Bokmakierie  Villa  was  painted  yellow  with  a  black  stripe  clean across  it,  in  honour  of  the  bird  it  was  named  for,  and  the  view  it  enjoyed was of a magical glade with its own burbling brook and a view past mature monkey-puzzle  trees.  Patio  doors  led  out  onto  a  deck  with  a  large  dining table and a brick barbecue area. There was no sign of life, but Grant was glad at least there was no sign of death either. 


Abruptly, Moth gave a hoarse, chirruping call. Grant jumped and looked at her. ‘What was that?’


‘A signal,’ Moth said with a smile. 


‘For your people?’ Grant assumed. 


‘Person,’ Moth corrected him, as an answering call rose from the cover of some nearby monkey-puzzles. 


The  patio  door  burst  open  and  Xai  and  Roland  darted  out,  automatic weapons at the ready, and took cover behind the brick barbecue and a large urn respectively. Grant opened his mouth to call to them, but someone else spoke first. 


‘Jeez,  you  two!’  a  deep  voice  thundered  out.  ‘Trying  to  scare  off  an  old chommie who only wants to help?’ A tall, stocky man with red hair and a scraggy beard strode out from between the tree’s spiky branches, holding a high-powered  rifle  up  in  one  hand  to  show  he  was  no  threat.  With  two bandoliers strapped in an X across his chest, he looked like he’d wandered out of some old-fashioned revolutionary conflict. 


Roland  stared  at  him,  slowly  lowering  his  own  weapon.  ‘Yonker,’  he breathed. ‘Frederick Yonker, so you  
are
 here!’


‘Dad!’ Moth called, and ran to him, leaving Grant open-mouthed. 


‘Motholeli!’  Yonker  opened  his  arms  and  scooped  her  into  a  bear  hug. 


‘You fished a politician’s son out of the pool, then! Quite a catch, eh?’


Wrong-footed, Grant hurried from the flower bed to join Xai and Roland on the deck. Xai, his wounded arm bandaged now, gave him a slap on the shoulder, and Roland shook his hand. 


‘Glad you could join us, Grant,’ Roland said. 


‘We’ve been worried sick,’ Niko added, opening a ground-floor window. 


Grant started towards the window to embrace her, but she shrank back as Yonker stepped onto the deck with Moth beside him. 


‘You!’ Niko hissed. ‘I saw you in Gauda. You helped them kill all those villagers!’


‘Whoa, easy!’ Yonker held out his hands to their group. ‘It was me who set you free just now, bruh!’


‘In  Gauda  he  helped  to  herd  doctors  and  medics  into  the  community building,’ Niko went on, ‘so they’d be killed when it was blown to bits!’


Roland raised his weapon in warning. ‘I’d hoped there was some mistake here. What is this, Yonker?’


‘I’m trying to save your sad backsides, that’s what!’ Yonker stood in front of  Moth  protectively.  ‘Listen,  Ballantyne.  I  took  the  commission  from  a man called Shrinker, with no clue that Mbato was involved. I was told we were  securing  biological  weapons  on  a  terrorist  site.  It  was  Shrinker  who


blew Gauda to bits. Mission creep, he told us – we had to contain a virus or millions would die …’


‘But you didn’t contain it,’ Grant said, ‘did you?’


‘He punched me out when I tried to stop him setting the charges, when I realised it was just a town of innocents. Woke up in cuffs when it was all over. Thought they were going to take me out too, but they made threats …


to her.’ He glanced at Moth. ‘That was enough to buy my silence.’


‘You  can’t  trust  him,  Roland,’  Niko  insisted,  and  Grant  was  inclined  to agree,  from  all  he’d  heard.  But  Moth  had  helped  him  escape,  and  if  she trusted Yonker …


Yonker’s  voice  hardened.  ‘Don’t  you  think  I’m  taking  a  chance  trusting 
you
? I’ve seen what they’ve said about you all … and I know it’s bull. In here,  I  just  know.’  He  tapped  his  fingers  over  his  heart  and  sighed impatiently.  ‘Look,  living  so  close  to  Gerhard’s  place,  I’ve  picked  up transmissions, signals, all that. I sent all the guests away, broadcast on the radio, saying I was going away, so Mbato wouldn’t try to press me into this. 


When I listened in and heard he was using this place for the pick-up, I knew I had to help. I jemmied your window, Ballantyne, left gear for you – and are you grateful? The hell you are!’


‘Why’d you stay hidden?’ Grant demanded. 


‘You think I’m  
bossies
? Think I want word getting back to Mbato that I went  against  him  again?’  Yonker  shook  his  head.  ‘Had  to  clear  out  so Rontane wouldn’t involve me.’


Xai still seemed suspicious. ‘Why work for them as a merc when you have this place?’


‘Debts!  This  place  didn’t  come  cheap,  you  know?  The  banks  wouldn’t loan me money, so I had to go to the kind of people who would.’


‘Loan sharks?’ Grant ventured. 


‘Loan  
megalodons
, more like. You know, the big prehistoric great whites, eh?’  Yonker  saw  that  no  one  was  smiling  along  with  him,  and  shrugged. 


‘Well,  anyway,  we’d  hardly  opened  when  the  Covid  lockdown  kicked  in, and things never really got better. But compared to you, well! Even with my livelihood half-blown to hell, I’m having a ball, eh?’


Roland looked at Xai and received a silent nod. He lowered his gun, and finally he smiled. ‘Thanks. I’m sorry your place is trashed.’


Grant relaxed a little as the stand-off ended. Niko still looked uncertain, but Roland gave her a reassuring nod. 


‘Me too,’ said Yonker. ‘Well, you can thank me by getting the hell out of here, because believe me, big trouble is coming –’


Niko turned from the window and broke into a coughing fit. She covered her mouth with a hand. 


Roland turned to her, concerned. ‘Niko?’


‘Get  away  from  me.’  She  lowered  her  hands,  held  them  out.  They  were scattered with specks of blood. 


‘Oh  no,’  Grant  breathed,  as  Yonker  and  Moth  instinctively  took  a  step back. 


‘I hoped it was just a cough,’ she said softly. ‘But Gerhard’s virus …’ A bloody  tear  rolled  down  her  cheek.  ‘Maybe  my  mask  was  bad.  Maybe  it was already too late. But I’ve got the virus too.’


Across the grounds of the Lodge, a steel-blue Land Rover was pulling up outside the shattered reception block. The driver got out and opened the rear door  for  another  man  to  get  out.  The  man  was  short  with  a  thick  black moustache. He was dressed in a linen suit that might once have been white, but now was grey. The platinum chain around his neck and the rings on his fingers were a bright contrast against his skin. 


The man walked over to the body of Kali Rontane, who lay sprawled on the patio amid a million glassy fragments. 


‘Stop  faking  it,  Rontane,’  the  man  snarled.  ‘You’ve  never  felt  dressed without body armour under your clothes.’


Rontane  rolled  over  and  glared  up  at  him.  ‘Those  bullets  still  hit  hard enough to break my ribs.’


‘Mbato will do worse when he learns you lost our targets. I trusted you to get this right.’


‘ 
You
 – trust me?’ Rontane spat. ‘That’s rich. You only cut me in because you were too busy smuggling ivory out of Nampula when Mbato hired you to get Ballantyne.’


‘Couldn’t  miss  an  opportunity  like  this,  now,  could  I?’  The  man  smiled thinly, his lips like a crooked scar that ran clear across his face. ‘I ought to


cut off your ears. Show them to Mbato so he knows you paid the price for letting us down.’


‘Big talk!’ Rontane sneered. ‘Instead of bitching about what we lost, how about  we  try  getting  them  back?  No  one  knows  this  land  and  its  hiding places better than you do.’


The man glared down at her. Then he grunted and pulled Rontane to her feet, making her gasp with pain. 


‘Mbato’s  special  ops  force  will  be  out  searching  for  Ballantyne  and  his pathetic band of brothers now too, so we need to find them first. See which of your guys can still walk and we’ll finish this.’


Rontane picked up her fallen cap and glared at him. ‘Just like old times, eh?’


‘It’s  for  “old  times”  I  said  yes  to  Mbato,’  he  muttered.  ‘I  want  to  see Ballantyne’s face when he learns that the man who has humbled him – the man who has finally torn him down – is me. Angel Abrafo.’


As  Rontane  shuffled  away  to  check  on  the  remaining  members  of  her team, Abrafo turned and gazed out over the open sweep of the valley and its game. Where others might find peace and beauty, Abrafo saw only spots for ambush  and  death  for  profit.  ‘Run  all  you  like,  Ballantyne,’  he  breathed. 


‘As far and fast as you like. You can’t hide from me. After all these years, I’m finally going to end you.’




19


At Bokmakierie Villa, Grant watched anxiously as Niko slumped in a chair in the downstairs room. He turned to Roland, Xai and Yonker. ‘There must be something we can do to help.’


Yonker didn’t look hopeful. ‘Our last guests brought the virus here – two women.  The  first  fell  sick  so  quickly.  They  chartered  a  helicopter  to  take them to a private clinic across the border in Zimbabwe. We couldn’t help them here.’


Niko  had  overheard.  ‘There  was  nothing  I  could  do  for  my  patients  in Gauda either.’


‘But  the  virus  has  spread  now.  The  world  will  have  moved  fast  on  this, right?’  Grant  argued.  ‘There  could  be  new  therapies,  enough  to  slow  its progress at least …’


Grant saw the lines in Roland’s face deepen. He looked utterly desolate. 


Grant  remembered  the  grief  in  Robyn’s  voice  when  she’d  described  her mother’s  death,  and  guessed  that  Roland  was  picturing  the  same  thing happening  again,  right  here.  With  an  effort  that  was  obvious  to  Grant  but hidden  from  the  others  standing  further  away,  Roland  regained  his  calm expression. ‘Grant’s right,’ he said. ‘If only we can get you –’


‘To a private clinic in Zimbabwe?’ Niko said softly. ‘I don’t think so.’


‘Perhaps my people could help,’ Xai said. ‘Yonker, you know these parts better  than  anyone.  We’ve  been  trying  to  find  any  last  pockets  of  the Bakho.’


‘They’re  long  gone.  Driven  out  when  the  miners  were  given  the  land,’


Yonker  said.  ‘Some  were  killed  for  trying  to  stand  up  to  Mbato  –  like Moth’s folks. When that happened, I took her in.’


‘The  Bakho  are  still  out  there,  though,’  Moth  said.  ‘In  their  place  of hiding. I know it.’


Yonker gave her a look. ‘We’ve been through this, sweetheart. I’ve always encouraged you to find out about your heritage –’


‘They  
are
 out there!’ Moth insisted. ‘I’ve seen a woman, sometimes. And a man older than you. I’ve worked out the places where their camp might be hidden – out-of-the-way places, easy to defend –’


‘Could you show us on a map?’ Grant asked her. When the others looked at him, clearly not inclined to believe her, he shrugged. ‘If nothing else, we could use someplace hard to find and easy to defend, couldn’t we?’


Roland scowled. ‘We need real intelligence to go on.’


Moth bristled. 


‘You haven’t seen how capable Moth is,’ Grant put in. 


‘I  
can
 show you the sites where they might be,’ Moth said fiercely. ‘I’ve spent months searching.’


Yonker reacted like he’d been sucker-punched. ‘Why didn’t you tell me?’


Moth looked down at the floor, angrily wiping at her eyes. ‘I just …’


‘Blood ties are strong,’ said Xai, and placed a hand on Yonker’s shoulder while looking kindly at the girl. ‘I can’t believe the Bakho would give up on their ancestral lands, either,’ he said, crouching down beside her. ‘Roland, let me check her maps. In any case, Grant’s right – we can’t stay here. We could use a safe hideout.’


‘All right,’ said Roland. ‘You do that. Yonker, if soldiers or poachers come back in force, can we defend ourselves?’


Yonker  hesitated.  ‘I’ve  got  transport  hidden  away  down  the  hillside.  We can take that and drive to this cache of combat supplies I keep hidden down in the valley. In our line of work, you stay prepared. Because  
who prepares,
 
wins
. The Ballantyne motto. Right?’


‘Right,’ Roland agreed. ‘But I’m not your commanding officer any more. 


I have no right to ask you to risk your –’


‘Oh, spare me, bruh!’ said Yonker. ‘You know I’m in.’


‘Dad,’  Moth  hissed  suddenly,  and  he  fell  silent.  In  the  distance,  voices were carrying. 


‘Please, Rontane, my leg …’


‘Get up, you miserable jackal! You’ll get no payback lying in the dirt.’


‘Sounds like the Queen of the Poachers made it,’ Grant muttered. 


‘And she’s not alone,’ Moth agreed. 


‘Yonker, we’d better get these maps,’ said Xai. 


‘While you do that, Dad, I can prep the jeep,’ Moth said. ‘Maybe Grant could come with me?’


Grant nodded. ‘Sure.’


‘All  right,’  said  Yonker.  ‘We’ll  follow  with  Niko  once  we’ve  rigged  a stretcher, eh?’


‘Be careful,’ Roland said. ‘And good luck.’


 
Good luck, 
 thought Grant grimly.  
Sure. Maybe in the next life
. 


Robyn wasn’t sure how long she’d been asleep this time, but she was back lying in bed in the strange hospital room carved out of the rock. She was feeling  less  dizzy  now,  and  focused  on  Senosi  as  he  poured  various solutions into beakers and test tubes in a small lab area in the corner, lit by a battered old Anglepoise lamp. 


‘Welcome back,’ Senosi said without turning around. 


‘I can’t believe Luke is alive …’ She frowned. ‘Do you know any more about my brother? Has anyone in the tribe seen him?’


‘Not  yet.  But  our  hunters  are  all  around  the  area.  He  may  be  sighted.’


Senosi  paused.  ‘Besides  concern  for  your  family,  how  are  you  feeling now?’


Robyn stretched and winced. ‘My arm is sore.’


‘Ah. Sorry, that’s me making a pincushion of it.’


‘Blood tests?’


‘Samples.  Your  blood  is  very  unusual,  Robyn.  And  luckily  for  you,  it’s combined  with  elements  of  our  natural  medicines  in  a  most  unexpected way.’


‘Luckily,  as  in  I’m  still  alive,’  Robyn  reasoned.  She  paused  to  think.  ‘I have  a  genetic  quirk  from  my  dad  that  helps  my  immune  system  resist


viruses.  I  fought  off  Ebola  when  I  was  young.  We  all  caught  it.  Dad,  my brother and I all got through OK. But Mum died.’


‘She  lacked  the  immunity  passed  down  from  your  father,  of  course,’


Senosi said gently. ‘This virus is interesting. Some people catch it quickly, while  others  seem  to  have  more  resistance.  But   
your
  resistance  …’  He whistled. ‘Well, we need to isolate your plasma and antibodies, but the early signs are promising.’


‘Promising?’


‘That there is hope for a cure. Something that offers my people hope also.’


‘Sorry?’ Robyn sat up in bed, feeling sick. ‘You mean, I’ve passed on the virus to your people?’


‘No, no. Don’t distress yourself. I mean, were we to find a way to help the world’s population recover from this virus, think of the gratitude we would earn.’


Robyn looked at him. ‘Gratitude’s all you want?’


‘Oh, we can name our price, I know. But money is no help to my people. 


The land is. Belonging is.’ Senosi’s voice had hardened. ‘You think I take liberties, perhaps? It is  
your
 blood I have used, after all. Your people have taken  lands  from  the  Bakho  and  peoples  like  us  time  and  time  again,  and exploited them without consent. Now you must think I am doing the same to you.’


‘I have never hurt your people,’ Robyn told him truly. ‘I’ve grown up with a wonderful Bakho tracker, a man called Xai, and he’s like a second parent to me. He’s educated me in so many ways. If my blood can help you and the wider world, of course you should use it.’


‘I remember your friend, Xai. He left us long ago, but he did not return as I  did.’  Senosi  gave  a  stiff  little  bow.  ‘I’m  sorry,  Robyn.  I  have  spent  so much of my life torn between two worlds – playing the part of the sangoma here and a lawyer in the world outside, sneaking between the two so as not to draw attention to our being here, while trying to improve my people’s lot as best I can …’


‘A  lawyer?’  Robyn  looked  at  Senosi’s  bright,  geometrically  patterned clothes and tried to picture him in a sober suit; it made her smile. ‘I suppose your people really need to know their rights and stuff. With all that’s been taken from you.’


‘Shame  I  wasn’t  qualified  twenty  years  ago,’  Senosi  said.  ‘I  could  have helped my father fight Mbato in the courts, and this area might still be filled with Bakho. Just as it was before we were evicted from our homelands by the man who would one day become your great president … so he could rip apart the veldt for mining.’


‘Mbato owns mines?’ Robyn frowned. 


‘Most of them are spent and empty now, but yes, he owned many mines,’


Senosi explained. ‘It’s said that while he was in the army he made a fortune by helping a poaching gang traffic ivory.’


‘And I know whose gang.’ Robyn felt a sneer twist her features. ‘Angel Abrafo.’


‘You know of Abrafo.’ Senosi nodded. ‘Of course, your father fought in the same unit as Mbato, and in the Lebombo Mountains.’


‘ 
You
 know a lot about us,’ Robyn noted. 


‘The state news is full of the crimes you’re supposed to have committed,’


Senosi said. 


 
Just an observation
, Robyn wondered,  
or a deliberate change of subject? 


‘Ironic, isn’t it? The world thinks your family started this pandemic, when in fact you may hold the key to ending it.’


‘I’m glad you don’t believe that stuff on the news.’


‘Mbato controls the media. And after all Luke has told us about him and Gerhard, we know that nothing about them is what it seems.’


‘That  works  both  ways.’  Robyn  watched  as  the  lawyer/sangoma  busied himself  with  technology  she  could  only  guess  at.  ‘Most  people  think  the Bakho are simple hunter gatherers, and look at all you’re doing.’


‘We  break  the  stereotype,  you  mean.  That’s  the  only  reason  a  few  of  us were able to maintain our community here,’ said Senosi grimly. ‘Here, on land that holds nothing beneath it but the red ochre our ancestors mined for the  cave  drawings  you  see  on  the  walls.  Nothing  of  value  to  the  mining corporations.’ With a soft chuckle, he shook his head. ‘It suits us that those with power underestimate us. How could “primitives” like the Bakho bother one so powerful as Mbato or Josef Gerhard?’


‘Gerhard,’ Robyn said sharply. ‘He’s the man who created this virus. He took  wild  animals,  twisted  their  DNA  and  created  ancient  predators,  like


cave  lions.  He  dragged  that  virus  into  the  world.  He  tried  to  have  Luke killed …’


Senosi held up a hand to calm her. ‘And yet Luke says that Gerhard sent drones to scare away the beasts that hunted him, and had his staff stitch up Luke’s wounds.’


Robyn blinked. ‘Why would he say that?’


‘Luke’s  father  is  another  of  those  clever,  powerful  people  we  discussed. 


Luke  claims  that  Gerhard  planned  to  use  him  to  force  Mr  van  Rok  into helping with some business scheme or other …’ Senosi studied a test tube and nodded with satisfaction. ‘Still. Don’t distress yourself with thoughts of Gerhard. You’re safe here. That’s what matters.’


‘No,’  Robyn  said  sourly.  ‘What  matters  is  my  brother  is  somewhere  out there and I can’t reach him. I’ve got to help him.’


‘You are helping us here,’ Senosi reminded her. ‘Just as we have helped you. A fair bargain, no? You will stay a little longer, please.’


Robyn bit her lip as Senosi left the room. Was anyone really looking for Ralph?  she  wondered.  Or  were  they  just  trying  to  stop  her  complaining while they bled the life from her? 


 
That’s not fair
, she told herself. But she felt uneasy. 


She  caught  a  shadow  of  furtive  movement  in  the  doorway.  Fear  gripped her throat for a second until she saw it was Luke. 


‘Don’t  say  anything,’  he  whispered.  Looking  all  around,  he  slipped  into the  room  and  stood  in  the  shadows  near  the  equipment.  ‘Listen  to  me. 


We’ve got to get out of here.’


‘And find Ralph,’ Robyn agreed. ‘Yes, I know, but I can’t just –’


‘No, I said  
listen
.’  Luke  cut  her  off.  ‘This  set-up  is  a  sham.  Senosi  isn’t who you think he is. He’s working for Gerhard!’




20


It  was  a  relief  for  Ralph  when  they  reached  the  unassuming  wooden building  that  stood  in  the  centre  of  the  mine  workings.  The  sun  had  been beating down relentlessly and his face felt sore and tight with sunburn, so it was  a  relief  to  feel  the  shade.  Best  of  all,  the  two  titanoboas  remained outside, swaying, while Gerhard ushered Ralph in through the door. 


‘We need to work on the titanoboas’ locomotion – drive them harder and further  over  long  distances.’  Gerhard  thrust  the  tablet  at  one  of  his assistants. ‘Stimulate the adrenal gland, really hurt them. We’ll see if pain speeds them up.’ He cuffed Ralph around the face, making him gasp. ‘The pain  response  is  very  helpful  when  you  need  an  animal  to  do  what  you want.’ He turned back to the assistant. ‘Get on with it.’


The man nodded, looking doubtful, but he kept any concerns he may have had to himself as he left with his colleague and the door closed behind him. 


 
That just leaves one snake to deal with, 
 thought Ralph, rubbing his bruised cheek.  
The  most  dangerous  of  all. 
 He  allowed  himself  the  fantasy  of overpowering Gerhard, pictured smashing his balding head against a table and  making  his  escape.  But,  weakened  as  he  was  from  thirst  and  hunger, where  would  he  escape  to?  The  titanoboa  sentries,  the  high  fence,  the massive expanse of wilderness … Even if he had the strength, where could he go? 


 
I mustn’t give up
, Ralph told himself.  
I need to find a chance and make the
 
most of it
. Looking around, he realised that once this room must have been


a canteen and a meeting space for the mine workers. Now it was as dusty and neglected as all the other places he’d explored. The food counter was piled with rusting utensils. 


‘Lunch time?’ Ralph said. ‘What are you gonna do – mess with the DNA of some old crumbs and bring them back as a three-course meal?’


Gerhard smiled languidly, pulled a small flask from his pocket, swigged and  swallowed  smugly.  ‘You  must  be  wondering  why.  Why  would  Josef Gerhard,  who  owns  thousands  of  square  kilometres  of  prime  African national parkland, locate anything here in this inconvenient dump?’


Ralph hadn’t been wondering that – he had more important things to think about – but he’d bite, if only to keep Gerhard talking while he worked on his  plan.  ‘Maybe  you  had  this  place  before  you  moved  next  door  to  us,’


Ralph suggested. ‘Maybe you inherited this old mine from some prospector in your family.’


‘Good reasoning, Ralph.’ Gerhard actually looked impressed. ‘In fact, this mine belonged to our great president.’


Ralph frowned. ‘Mbato?’


‘He  earned  enough  blood  money  during  his  army  days  to  buy  the  land. 


Land that is rich in cobalt. No doubt you know that rechargeable batteries need  cobalt  …  and  Gerhard  Industries  needed  a  lot  of  rechargeable batteries. So I invested in his mine.’


‘The start of a sick friendship,’ muttered Ralph. 


‘A fruitful one.’ Gerhard held out the flask to him. 


Ralph was so, so thirsty, but he hesitated. Could he trust Gerhard? Just as he  reached  out  for  the  drink,  Gerhard  tipped  the  flask  and  poured  the contents  onto  the  floor.  Ralph  watched  the  liquid  soak  into  the  dusty floorboards. 


‘He who hesitates is lost,’ Gerhard murmured. ‘In life, as in business.’


Ralph stared at him hatefully.  
Just wait till I have a shot at you
, he thought darkly.  
I won’t hesitate then
. 


‘Of  course,  once  the  mine  had  been  worked  dry,  I  had  parts  of  it  …


repurposed.  By  then,  you  see,  I’d  become  interested  in  the  research  of  a Danish science team who’d recreated the sarcosuchus. The area around here is rich in well-preserved fossils and organic material from prehistory.’


Ralph thought of the turtle shell he’d found. Why couldn’t Gerhard have brought that back instead of giant snakes? 


‘Where  better  to  set  up  a  genetic  research  facility  far  from  the  tedious watchful  eyes  of  those  old  fools  at  the  Department  of  Science  and Technology?’


‘They’d  have  stopped  you.  All  the  animals  you  must  have  tortured  and killed, splicing ancient DNA into their genes –’


‘They died so that their extinct ancestors might live,’ Gerhard argued. ‘A purposeful death to crown an otherwise pointless existence.’ He crossed to the  counter  and  reached  beneath  it,  searching  for  something.  There  was  a click, and then a hatch opened in the floor, making a grinding noise. In the soft glow it emitted Ralph could see the top of a ladder. 


‘As you’ve observed, I’ve enjoyed a good deal of success with my little experiments.’  Gerhard  produced  a  small  gun  and  waved  it  towards  the ladder. ‘Care to explore?’


Ralph felt afraid at the idea of descending into whatever hell Gerhard had devised beneath them. ‘Why do you even want to show me?’


‘I require your assistance.’ Gerhard gestured to the hatch again. ‘Move.’


A little unsteadily, Ralph climbed down the ladder. He considered trying to drop down and run out of sight, but he had no idea what to expect down here,  and  Gerhard  would  know  the  place  like  the  back  of  his  hand.  
Get
 
some local knowledge
, he told himself.  
Then maybe you can get out again
. 


‘I still don’t see why you’re so obsessed with making predasaurs in real life  instead  of  just  in  virtual  reality,’  Ralph  said,  hoping  that  if  he  kept Gerhard talking the man would give away something useful. 


‘Don’t  you  indeed.’  Gerhard  scoffed  softly.  ‘When  Mbato  achieves  his third  term,  he  will  legalise  my  predasaurs  as  the  ultimate  big  game  hunt. 


People  will  pay  anything  –  anything!’  Gerhard  gestured  with  the  gun, shepherding Ralph to take a left turn. ‘Then Mbato will legalise the trade in ivory – ivory that is harvested from my mammoths and woolly rhinos  
only,
 beasts  that  are  my  property,  bred  for  this  purpose  and  with  no  rights  to protection or conservation because I can clone them with ease …’


Ralph turned on Gerhard. ‘Do you not hear yourself? You think it’s OK to exploit living animals –’


‘Living  only  because  I  willed  it.’  Gerhard  looked  irritated.  ‘You’re  not using  your  intelligence,  Ralph.  More  hunters  coming  for  my  predasaurs means less slaughter of big game, correct? And when my ivory is legal to trade, poacher scum like Rontane and Abrafo and their criminal gangs will no longer be able to profit.’


Ralph  narrowed  his  eyes  in  grim  understanding.  ‘Because   
you’ll
  be  the only one profiting.’


‘And  why  shouldn’t  I?  I’ll  be  doing  more  to  protect  animals  than  your tedious father ever could.’


‘Don’t make out that you’re doing it for the animals. You want to  
control
 them,’ said Ralph, ’to direct them. In games and in real life.’ He watched Gerhard closely. ‘All these fingers in so many pies. But what’s it all leading to, Gerhard? What’s the endgame?’


‘The endgame?’ Gerhard said lightly. ‘That’s none of your concern. This virus, on the other hand? That most certainly is your concern – or rather, the way I intend to rid the world of it is.’


‘How?’


‘You  should  be  asking,  
who
?’  Gerhard  grinned.  ‘Oh,  yes,  Ralph.  I  was wise to spare you. A little bird tells me that Ballantyne blood has uncanny resistance to the virus.’


Ralph swallowed. ‘I don’t believe you.’


‘Your sister would appear to be proof.’


His stomach dropped. ‘Robyn? Will you tell me where she is?’


Gerhard nodded. ‘And I’ll tell you  
what
 she is – the means to a cure that could save the world. Think how well-disposed the world will be to the man who saved millions of lives. Instant celebrity. Instant access to the biggest names in business and tech research. Gerhard Industries will become a top-ten  multinational,  years  ahead  of  my  original  schedule.  And  my  endgame will  move  all  the  faster  towards  completion.’  He  jabbed  the  gun  against Ralph’s  spine.  ‘Turning  negatives  into  positives  –  that’s  what  life’s  all about, isn’t it?’


Ralph gritted his teeth. ‘I asked you,  
where is Robyn
?’


‘Where you’d expect her to be,’ Gerhard said. ‘In as much trouble as you are.’


‘Senosi is working for  
Gerhard
?’ Robyn’s voice fell to a whisper, ground out through gritted teeth, but still it seemed to fill the hospital cell. ‘How do you know?’


‘The Bakho here aren’t your regular tribe,’ he began. ‘They’re advanced. 


Crazy advanced.’


‘Of course they are, you’re standing in front of their medical tech –’


‘Not  just  this  stuff!’  Luke  hissed.  ‘These  hidden  caves  must  stretch  for miles,  like  a  bunker  beneath  the  mountains.  And  there’s  wifi  –  a  special network. I have my phone, see, and they think I just play games on it –’


Robyn frowned. ‘I thought that was taken off you at Gerhard’s complex?’


‘Duh, it was. But when I came round from my operation, that ranger, Abi, was on the couch beside me. She said you’d saved her life.’


Robyn nodded slowly, remembering. ‘I did. She’s all right, then?’


‘She pulled through, and thank God she did, and thank God you made that happen, cos she’s not as much of a hard-nosed old cow now. She even let me have my phone to game on while I recuperated. I mean, she dumped the security  apps  first,  obvs,  so  I  couldn’t  get  up  to  anything  …’  He  smiled. 


‘But  what  Abi   
didn’t
  know  was  that  I  had  an  app  on  there  that  recovers anything that’s been deleted! I got back the security stuff, hacked my way into Gerhard’s security and escaped on a trail bike …’


‘While you were so injured?’ Robyn was impressed. ‘How’d you manage to cover so many miles without Gerhard finding you?’


‘Because  he’d  already  sent  everyone  after  you,’  said  Luke.  ‘I  rode. 


Walked. Climbed. Wounds got infected, though. When the Bakho found me and treated me, I thought my luck had changed, but …’


‘Go on,’ said Robyn. 


‘Well,  I’ve  been  stuck  here.  I  wanted  to  get  out.  Talk  to  my  parents  at least,  you  know?  That  nice  Bakho  lady  here  who  helped  you,  she  let  me charge  my  phone  and  of  course  I  hacked  into  the  San’s  private  network, trying to send a message to my dad. Turns out I can’t get a call through to the world outside, but I  
can
 listen in on the calls that come and go in and out of here. And I heard Senosi … talking to Gerhard.’


‘No way,’ Robyn breathed. 


‘Yes way. Senosi told Gerhard how your immune system took care of the virus. It’s not him who wants a cure for it, it’s Gerhard.’


A chill swept over Robyn. ‘You mean, Senosi is using my blood to help 
him
?’


‘That’s  right,’  Luke  whispered.  ‘I  mean,  I  know  these  guys  have  great tech, but do you think they set this up on their own? Can you really imagine a Bakho tribe developing a brand-new vaccine – from some secret caves in the mountains?’


Robyn had wanted so much to believe Senosi. But Luke’s words made the whole idea seem ridiculous. ‘Luke, are you totally sure it was Gerhard –’


‘That’s why he’s not sent anyone to get me, Robyn – he knows Senosi will hand me over to him whenever he’s ready.’ Luke grimaced. ‘There’s more, too …’


‘What?’


‘Your brother,’ Luke said. ‘Last I heard, Gerhard had spotted him near this old mine where he films  
Predasaur
.’


Hope rushed through Robyn in a golden wave, fast followed by fear for Ralph. ‘Did Gerhard get him?’


‘I don’t know.’


‘Oh  God,’  Robyn  breathed.  ‘Luke,  we  have  to  find  him  before  Gerard does!’


‘Right!’  he  agreed.  ‘Meaning  we  have  to  get  away  from  here,  which  is what I said in the first place.’


She nodded. ‘But how are we gonna find a way out?’


‘I got hold of this.’ Luke showed her his phone screen, and Robyn saw a map of what looked like tunnels with rooms leading off. 


‘Is that this place?’ she asked. 


Luke  nodded  and  tapped  one  room  on  the  screen.  ‘X  marks  the  spot. 


There’s an emergency exit, a staircase cut into the rock leading all the way to the surface … if you’re strong enough to take it?’


‘I’ll  manage,’  Robyn  said  with  cold  certainty.  ‘Anger  is  an  energy.  And I’m ready to use it.’




21


Grant was impressed; Yonker and Moth had concealed their emergency jeep well. First they’d dug a broad pit about a metre deep with a sloping ramp at one  end,  floored  and  reinforced  with  wooden  boards  so  the  tyres  would have grip. Then a dark tarpaulin had been placed over the top of the jeep and  sandy  soil  piled  over  it.  Grasses  and  creepers  threaded  carefully through  green  cargo  netting  made  a  near-impenetrable  curtain  around  the jeep, and saplings planted all around helped screen everything even more. A huge termite mound had been built up next to the jeep, adding to the cover. 


Niko lay on the ground on the stretcher; Roland and Xai had carried her most  of  the  way  along  the  treacherous  path  down  the  mountain.  She watched them now, looking tired and sweaty, as Moth crossed to a mighty torchwood  tree  and  tugged  hard  on  a  creeper.  There  was  a  rustling  in  the crowning  branches  and,  when  she  heaved  again,  a  plastic  bundle  slipped noisily into sight. One more tug and the bundle came loose, crashing to the forest  floor.  Inside  the  thick  plastic  wrap,  Grant  could  see  spades  and shovels. 


‘How long is it since you left the jeep here?’ asked Roland. 


‘Must  be  two  years,’  said  Yonker,  surveying  the  site.  ‘Pity  to  have  to uproot these termites.’


‘But, since Moth’s work with the maps checks out,’ said Xai, bestowing a kindly smile on her, ‘needs must.’


Moth’s  shy  smile  in  response  flashed  across  her  face  like  a  sunbeam. 


Grant felt its warmth as he stepped forward to help Moth open the bundle of shovels. 


‘We’ll take care of excavation duties,’ Yonker said. ‘Grant, Moth, get to higher ground and keep a lookout for soldiers and poachers. We need to be sure we’re not drawing attention.’


Moth  scurried  away  immediately,  and  Grant  jogged  after  her  up  a  steep slope. Soon they had reached an outcrop ringed by knobthorn trees. Some branches  had  been  broken  off  to  carve  out  a  space,  a  kind  of  natural fortified turret with fair visibility of the terrain in all directions. 


‘You watch out north and east,’ said Grant, as Moth slipped a stone in her catty. ‘I’ll take south and west.’


He  gazed  out  over  the  rippling  landscape,  where  the  gentle  hills  slowly rose and fell towards the great vegetated sand dunes on the distant shore of the Indian Ocean.  
Robyn, Ralph
, he thought,  
where are you? 


The grunt and squeal of wildebeest drew his eye to a watering hole below them. He watched as the wildebeest clustered with zebra and nyala to drink: safety in numbers, clearly, as Grant could make out a lioness atop an anthill, watching the proceedings with interest. But from here Grant could also see what the herbivores could not: a leopard, so much closer, in the branches of a tree, biding its time and watching for unwary stragglers. 


It was a useful lesson.  
Prey or predator
, Grant reflected.  
You  have  to  be
 
sure you’re watching the right thing
. 


‘Where’s this cache of weapons, then?’ Grant asked. 


‘There.’  Moth  pointed  ahead.  ‘Dad’s  sent  me  to  check  it’s  not  been disturbed so many times. It was while I was out there looking around that I found this old path …’ She shrugged. ‘It might lead to a Bakho hideout. I tried to find a way through, but the path was unpassable. Until I’m bigger and stronger, anyway.’


‘Couldn’t your dad help you look?’ Grant asked. 


‘I … didn’t want to upset him.’ Moth looked downcast. ‘Didn’t want him to  think  I  was  trying  to  leave  him.  We’re  all  each  other  has.  My  parents were  killed  in  a  …  convenient  accident  while  protesting  outside  one  of Mbato’s mines. My whole family, dead and gone. If Dad hadn’t found me


…’


‘Didn’t he try to return you to your people?’


‘Like a lost parcel?’ Moth’s large, dark eyes bored into his. ‘My tribe was scattered. It’s not like he’s tried to hold me back from my heritage – Dad always encouraged me to get to know the lands that my family came from. 


Their culture and stuff. You know?’ She looked out across the mountains, the  breeze  ruffling  her  dark  hair.  ‘And  yeah,  I  can  read  about  it,  watch videos, look at pictures … but I can’t  
feel
 it. I still don’t really know what I am. Does that make any sense?’


Grant nodded. ‘I get it. My whole life, my dad was grooming me for a life in politics, to follow him into the party. But I don’t know if I want that.’ He paused. ‘Maybe your dad prefers to believe the Bakho are all gone. Because if you find them, he’s afraid he’ll lose you.’


Moth looked at him. ‘You shouldn’t be a politician. You talk sense.’


They  kept  watch  in  silence,  but  it  was  companionable  rather  than awkward.  Grant  watched  the  last  light  of  day  darken  into  a  golden-tinged purple.  The  tops  of  the  trees  lining  the  river  still  showed  touches  of movement: mopane and acacia leaves fluttered in the breeze. Cicadas and crickets  hummed  and  chirped  among  the  tall  grasses  lining  the  riverbank. 


Reed frogs and nightjars added their calls to the evening sounds. 


Then the sound of an engine firing carried through the air. 


‘They’ve got the jeep working!’ Grant beamed. 


But  the  next  moment,  a  gunshot  rang  out,  its  echo  cracking  off  the  bare branches.  His  stomach  twisting  with  fear,  Grant  stared  all  around,  but  he couldn’t see any sign of an enemy. Moth pushed past him, her catty raised, and moved like a gazelle back along the wooded trail. 


‘Moth, wait!’ Grant hissed. But she was already out of sight. 


As  quietly  as  he  could,  Grant  made  his  way  down  towards  the  little clearing. He had to see what was happening. 


And when he did, he felt cold through to his soul. 


The  jeep  had  been  unearthed  but  now  a  poacher  stood  in  the  clearing;  a lean  young  man  that  Rontane  had  called  Malik,  Grant  recalled.  Malik looked  beaten  and  bruised  but  his  gun  covered  Roland,  Xai  and  Yonker. 


Niko lay on her stretcher, pale and sweaty, her eyes closed. 


A lazy voice sounded from the treeline. ‘So, Ballantyne … his little rogue, Xai … and Yonker, too! What a reunion.’


The  man  who’d  spoken  sauntered  into  sight.  The  gaudy  platinum  chain around his neck and linen suit were testament to wealth worn cheaply. But despite his short stature he looked powerful, and this image was enhanced by the knives and guns he had holstered in his thick leather belt. 


Roland just stared at the newcomer. He spat out two words like they were poison in his mouth: ‘Angel Abrafo.’


Ralph had started off making careful note of the turns he’d been forced to take  through  Gerhard’s  underground  complex;  the  doors  they’d  gone through, the scuffs on the wall, any cracks or stains that might make useful markers  on  the  journey  back  out  of  here.  But  truth  was,  all  the  corridors looked  the  same,  and  he  was  tired,  and  dehydrated,  and  his  concentration was as shot as his confidence. 


Gerhard, still driving Ralph forward at gunpoint, paused for a moment and pressed  his  thumb  against  some  kind  of  scanner  in  the  wall.  There  was  a beep  and  a  green  LED  bulb  winked  on  beside  the  scanner.  Then  double doors at the end of the corridor slid open for them. 


‘After you,’ said Gerhard with exaggerated politeness. 


Ralph stepped through into a warehouse-sized space beyond. The change in atmosphere was immediate: warm air caught in his nostrils, carrying the smell  of  animal  dung,  cut  vegetation  and  over-ripe  fruit.  The  metal walkway was flanked by animal pens. He could hear harsh breathing, and the scrape of claws on concrete. 


 
Oh,  God,  there’s  predasaurs  in  here
,  Ralph  thought  grimly.  
He’s  gonna
 
feed me to them. 


A woman emerged from between two cages holding a mop. With a shock, Ralph realised he recognised her – it was one of Gerhard’s rangers. 


‘Abi,’ he said. 


A blonde-haired bully with a buzz cut, Abi had caught him and Robyn and Luke trespassing, and had not been gentle when it came to subduing them. 


When  Ralph  had  seen  her  last,  she’d  been  badly  hurt  by  one  of  the predasaurs. Sure enough, she was limping, leaning on the mop like it was a crutch. Her right hip was clearly bandaged beneath her white overalls. 


‘So. Back, then,’ said Abi, dark eyes fixed on him. 


Ralph struggled for a good comeback. ‘Not through choice,’ he said. 


‘No one gets away from Gerhard,’ she said. It was meant to be a gloat, he supposed, but it sounded weary, as if she knew from her own experience. 


‘Good to see you’re back on your feet,’ said Ralph. It was Robyn who’d helped Abi with her injuries, perhaps saved her life. Maybe she’d show a scintilla of gratitude – maybe she’d help him?  
Yeah, right, 
 he thought 
. 


‘Abi,  you’re  relieved  of  clean-up  duties,’  Gerhard  said.  ‘I  need  your assistance with Ralph here. He needs rehydration – the special carbohydrate solution.’


Abi nodded slowly and left, still using the mop as a crutch. 


‘I’m  guessing  that  Gerhard  Industries’  sick  leave  isn’t  so  good,’  Ralph observed. ‘She looks bad.’


‘My staff has been somewhat depleted since you and your family left my reserve  in  such  a  mess,  Ralph.  Given  the  circumstances,  I’ve  had  to reallocate  roles.  I’m  sure  you’ll  appreciate  that  a  cure  must  be  found  for your virus.’


Ralph bristled at the ‘your’, and was about to put up a fight, but Gerhard gestured he should keep moving along the walkway. So Ralph walked on, more thirsty than ever now that Gerhard had mentioned a drink. 


He jumped as something large and dark slammed into the bars of its cage, towering  over  him  on  its  hind  legs:  a  giant  short-faced  bear.  Its  red  eyes burned with hatred and it snarled at him, saliva flicking from its jaws as it shook its head. He turned from it and kept on walking. Ralph hated seeing the animals in Gerhard’s cages. He knew they suffered intense pain caused by  the  patchwork  of  modern  and  ancient  genetics  stitched  together  by Gerard’s scientists. 


But then he passed a young woolly rhino. Its eyes were pink, not the raw bloodshot red of other predasaurs. 


Ralph  looked  from  the  rhino  to  Gerhard.  ‘This  one  is  different  from  the others?’


‘Sometimes  nature  attempts  to  reassert  itself  over  the  artificial improvements I have bestowed upon these beasts,’ Gerhard said loftily. ‘It’s helpful, really. By studying this one we can see which genes code its more placid nature …’


‘And remove them,’ said Ralph bitterly. 


‘Of  course.’  Gerhard  turned  at  the  sound  of  uneven  footsteps  along  the walkway.  ‘Ah,  dear,  loyal  Abi  is  catching  us  up.  She’ll  join  us  through here.’


Ralph was about to ask ‘Where?’ when a pair of doors opened in front of him at the end of the walkway to reveal a sterile white space with a couple of men in scrubs inside. From them, and from the pens he could see, Ralph assumed it was a room where the animals were given medical treatment –


or  opened  up  and  taken  apart,  cell  by  cell,  to  improve  their  predatory natures. 


Abi  caught  up  with  them  at  last.  She  was  carrying  a  small  tray.  Ralph turned, eager for his drink. 


All he saw was a syringe. 


The two men in scrubs grabbed him by the arms. Ralph struggled, tried to kick, but he couldn’t break free. They held out his left arm as Abi prepared the  syringe  and  injected  clear  fluid  into  his  arm.  The  sharp  scratch  made him wince. 


‘Don’t  be  concerned,  Ralph,’  Gerhard  said.  ‘It’s  a  solution  designed  to stimulate the production of certain proteins in your blood. Comparing yours with your sister’s should be quite instructive.’


Ralph  gasped  as  the  men  bundled  him  roughly  into  a  padded  chair  with arm  rests  and  an  open  back  and  fastened  his  wrists  and  ankles  with  soft restraints. ‘What are you doing?’


‘Just  relax.  The  nurses  here  are  going  to  take  some  blood  samples  and cerebrospinal fluid, perform some serologic antibody tests, and measure the target antibodies, proteins and antigens. It shouldn’t take too long to prepare samples of convalescent plasma,’ Gerhard went on genially. ‘Then all we’ll need for testing is someone suitably unwell.’


Ralph strained against his restraints, but they didn’t give a millimetre. ‘If you need someone sick, just look in the mirror.’


Gerhard’s smile grew a little tighter. ‘We’ll begin with a lumbar puncture, I think, Nurse. Hold still, Ralph.’


The words made Ralph go cold. 


The nurse nodded. ‘I’ll apply the iodine.’


Ralph winced as his shirt was tugged up and the liquid was brushed over his  back.  Then  he  saw  the  size  of  the  needle  and  closed  his  eyes.  
  Don’t


 
scream
, he told himself.  
Don’t scream and give Gerhard the satisfaction
 …


He  was  still  thinking  it  when  the  needle  was  inserted  between  his vertebrae, and sharp pain lanced through him. A bellow was ripped from his lungs. 


It wasn’t the last. 




22


‘ 
Abrafo
.’  Roland  Ballantyne  said  the  name  aloud,  and  it  reverberated through Grant’s brain. At the mere mention of the poacher overlord, Grant knew how high the stakes were. 


A reckoning between these men had always been on the cards. Roland had lost good friends and comrades to Abrafo: he had been seeking vengeance for twenty years. All Abrafo had lost was cash, a supply route and a blind eye  to  his  business,  but  in  his  book  Grant  supposed  that  must  weigh  the same. As they stared each other out like rival lions, wanting to dominate the other, you could almost smell the testosterone in the air. 


Malik  kept  his  gun  trained  on  Yonker  and  Xai  while  Abrafo  pulled  a revolver  from  his  belt  and  pointed  it  at  Ballantyne.  ‘Seems  like  only yesterday that I massacred your unit, eh? But these lands, they’ve changed so much. Almost beyond recognition. Whereas you … you’re just as dumb as  ever.’  Abrafo  smiled  smugly.  ‘It’s  got  to  sting,  boys,  huh?  I  beat  you back then – and now here I am, doing it again.’


Grant stifled a gasp as a hand slipped over his mouth from behind. 


It  was  Moth.  With  her  other  hand  she  forced  her  catapult  and  several stones into his sweaty palm. ‘Used one of these before?’ she whispered. 


Grant nodded. ‘I’m a good shot.’


‘Aim for heads. On my signal.’


‘What signal?’


‘You’ll  know.’  As  quickly  and  quietly  as  she’d  arrived,  Moth  departed, swallowed  by  the  undergrowth,  and  Grant’s  attention  shifted  back  to  the drama playing out below. 


‘It makes sense that Mbato would use you, Abrafo,’ said Roland. ‘It was him that warned you we were coming for you back then, wasn’t it?’


‘And  I  paid  him  well  for  it,’  Abrafo  agreed.  ‘Now  he’s  returning  the favour. What goes around comes around.’


Rontane  stepped  out  of  the  cover,  her  gold  teeth  catching  the  last  of  the sunlight. Grant fumbled to put a stone in the catty. Where was Moth? What was the signal going to be? 


‘So.’ Rontane waved her gun between Ballantyne and Yonker. ‘Which of you opened fire on Mbato’s helicopter?’


‘It was me,’ Roland said. ‘Oh, did they think it was you? Sorry.’


‘Clever strategy. But high-risk.’ She pointed the gun at his kneecap. ‘And that risk hasn’t paid off.’


Grant gripped the catty more tightly, sweat trickling down his back.  
Come
 
on, Moth
 …


‘Don’t  hurt  him  yet,’  Abrafo  ordered,  pointing  to  Niko  on  the  stretcher, who looked pale and breathless. 


‘Yeah,’ Malik growled. ‘We’ve already got one of them to carry.’


Xai shook his head. ‘Aren’t you worried that Mbato’s troops will kill you on sight before you hand us over?’


‘I’ve radioed Mbato. Explained the … misunderstanding.’


‘And you think he’ll actually pay you now instead of killing you?’ Roland sounded disbelieving. ‘As for you, Rontane, after your mess-up, you think Abrafo’s going to give you anything more than a bullet in the back?’


‘Come  on,  Ballantyne!’  Rontane  sneered,  stalking  to  stand  between Abrafo  and  Malik.  ‘Trying  to  turn  us  against  each  other?  That’s  so predictable.’


The   
korr-korr
  of  a  bird  sounded  from  high  up  in  the  branches.  Grant tensed. Was that the signal, or just a turaco? No, back at the Lodge, Moth had made a different bird call …


Abrafo’s  grin  was  growing  larger  and  smugger.  ‘You  military   
domkops
 can’t  out-think  me.  I  mean,  Yonker,  for  God’s  sake  –  you  think  I  didn’t


know you had this jeep hidden here? I knew you’d go for it now.’


‘Well  …’  Yonker  looked  sharply  from  Malik  down  to  the  ground.  ‘If you’ve chosen to stand there, you can’t know what’s gonna happen next …’


The  ground  under  Malik  heaved  with  swift  movement.  Rontane  grabbed Abrafo and pulled him clear as a stretch of cargo netting, concealed by leaf cover  on  the  forest  floor,  was  gathered  up  into  a  net.  Malik  was  lifted, struggling, into the air. He fired his automatic weapon, raking the clearing with gunfire. 


 
That’s a signal, all right
, Grant decided. He raised the catty, pulled back the elastic band and fired his rock. The gunfire stopped as Malik was struck and went limp. 


Then everything seemed to happen at once. Roland stooped to grab Niko from  the  stretcher  as  Xai  threw  open  the  rear  door  to  the  jeep.  Yonker jumped  into  the  driver’s  seat  and  turned  the  key  in  the  ignition.  Abrafo swung his gun up to fire, but Grant shot a second strike from Moth’s catty and knocked the gun from his hand. It would have been the shot of his life if he hadn’t actually been aiming for Abrafo’s head. 


Yonker gunned the engine, and Grant broke cover to jump down into the clearing.  While  Xai  got  Niko  safely  inside,  Roland  ran  at  Abrafo.  But Rontane  had  recovered  and  her  gun  was  in  her  hand.  She  shot  at  Roland, but  Malik,  still  bundled  up  in  the  net,  swung  into  the  path  of  the  bullet. 


Rontane aimed at Roland’s legs instead, but Roland jumped up and clung to the  net,  Malik’s  bleeding  body  shielding  him.  His  heart  pounding,  Grant fired off a third stone that skimmed Rontane’s forehead, spoiling her aim. 


At the same time, Moth ran from cover and whacked Rontane around the head  with  a  tree  branch  before  bringing  it  down  on  the  back  of  Abrafo’s skull. He gasped and fell forward, dazed. 


‘Get in!’ Roland shouted, jumping down from the net and clambering in beside  Yonker.  Xai  threw  open  the  rear  doors  and  Moth  and  Grant  piled inside. They were barely seated before Yonker had the jeep in gear and was revving away, up the ramp and out of the shallow pit. Malik’s body in the net slammed against the windscreen as they drove forward. Yonker swerved towards Abrafo, but the poacher king rolled out of the way and fired after them.  Tiny  fracture  lines  cracked  across  the  rear  windscreen  as  the laminated safety glass took the impact of the bullets. 


The  jeep  piled  on  over  the  rough  terrain,  shaking  everyone  like  a  plane hitting turbulence. Xai had to cling to Niko to stop her falling off the rear seat.  They’d  got  maybe  five  hundred  metres  when  Moth  pointed  through the windscreen to a steel-blue Land Rover. ‘More poachers up ahead!’


‘Holding  back  here  so  Abrafo  and  Rontane  could  creep  up  on  foot  and surprise you,’ Grant guessed. 


Luckily  there  were  only  two  men  in  the  vehicle.  They  leaned  out  of  the windows, aiming their rifles, ready to open fire. Yonker drove straight for the Land Rover and yanked the handbrake up as he swung the wheel hard clockwise.  They  side-swiped  the  vehicle,  giving  it  a  vicious  impact  that knocked  the  poachers  flying  before  they  could  fire.  Then  Yonker accelerated  again  and  they  were  bumping  away  downhill.  Tree  branches clawed  at  the  sides  of  the  jeep  and  battered  at  the  windscreen  –  nature’s little hands trying to fight their way inside. Grant realised he was holding his breath, desperate to escape. 


And suddenly they were free. There was space around them, as if they’d just burst out of a tunnel. But ahead was a perilous escarpment that looked as if it ended in a sheer drop. Yonker threw the wheel hard left and sent the jeep hurtling down another track. 


‘The weapons are a couple of miles from here,’ Moth reported. 


‘Abrafo said he knew about the jeep being hidden here,’ said Grant. ‘What if he knows about the weapons too? We could be driving into an ambush!’




23


 
Keep going
, Robyn told herself. It felt like she and Luke had been trekking through  the  bushveld  for  hours.  The  heat  made  Robyn  feel  dizzy,  and having  Luke  beside  her  was  giving  her  vivid  flashbacks  to  the  predasaur hunt they’d endured. 


The  more  she  staggered  on  through  the  long  grass,  the  more  nothing seemed to make sense. She and Luke had escaped Senosi’s care with no real difficulty;  they’d  ducked  back  into  alcoves  in  the  cave  walls  whenever anyone  had  passed,  and  once  outside  the  Bakho  had  only  half-heartedly tried to make them return. There was no anger in the people’s faces, only confusion and concern. 


‘Senosi’s brainwashed them all,’ Luke said. ‘They don’t know their wise leader is doing a deal with Gerhard.’


‘But surely,’ Robyn began, ‘Senosi would have put guards on us if he was keeping us prisoner?’


‘Oh,  sure,  and  give  the  whole  thing  away,’  Luke  said,  agitation  in  his voice. ‘Rob, you need to focus. We have to get to Ralph before those giant snake things do.’


Robyn  nodded  miserably.  ‘How  long  ago  since  Ralph  was  seen  at  that mine?’


‘I don’t know.’


‘How big is it? What if he’s moved on?’


‘We’ll find tracks or something,’ Luke insisted. ‘You’re good at that.’


Robyn  did  as  Luke  said,  following  him  through  the  veld  as  he  kept  a lookout for any animals that might prove a threat to them. She felt so guilty for all he’d been through, she found she didn’t want to argue with him. But still –


 
What if this is all a fever dream? 
 she thought dismally.  
What if I wake, and
 
I’m still dying, and Luke was never here …


‘Hey.’  Luke  took  her  arm  and  steered  her  out  the  way  of  a  thorny  bush blocking her path. He passed her the bottle of water they’d taken from the Bakho cave. ‘You look a million miles away. You OK?’


‘Not  really,’  she  admitted.  She  swigged  from  the  bottle,  then  licked  her dry lips. ‘I guess you don’t just bounce back from Gerhard’s virus in a few hours.’


‘You’re lucky to be alive,’ Luke agreed. 


‘So are you.’ Robyn tried to focus her thoughts as she carried on walking. 


‘I can’t believe you just rode out of Gerhard’s complex on a trail bike with the injuries you had.’


‘You’d  have  done  the  same,’  Luke  said  quietly.  ‘Anything  to  survive. 


When the stakes are that high …’


‘I suppose. Even so, you must have roamed for days.’


‘I lost track of how long it was.’ Luke led her through a stand of acacia trees. In the distance Robyn saw a dull, concrete building nestled against a hill behind a high chain-link fence. She felt a fizz of fresh enthusiasm. 


‘Is that the mine where Ralph was seen?’


‘Yep. Come on.’


His certainty puzzled Robyn. ‘How do you know?’


‘I passed it the day before the Bakho found me,’ Luke said impatiently. He drank from his water bottle and passed it to her. ‘Now, come  
on
.’


The water, and the hope of finding a clue to Ralph’s whereabouts, made Robyn feel a little stronger as she kept up with Luke. Finally, she’d be back with her brother and the three of them could start looking for her dad and Xai, Grant and Niko. There had to be something they could do …


The sun was sinking. The mine workings behind the fence shimmered in a heat haze. Robyn began to worry that it was a mirage. As they drew closer, 


she  noticed  a  small  split  in  the  fence  near  ground  level.  ‘We  can  get  in there,’ she suggested. 


‘The place is deserted,’ said Luke. ‘Let’s try the main gate. It’s probably not even locked, and it’s where Ralph would’ve made for, I bet.’


Robyn  was  about  to  follow  when  she  heard  something.  A  deep,  sinister hissing.  She  recognised  it  at  once.  ‘Oh,  no.’  She  grabbed  Luke’s  arm. 


‘Come on! That gap in the fence, we’ve got to try it!’


‘Why?’ Luke protested. 


A second later, he had his answer. A gargantuan serpent slid out from the overgrown bushes near the fence. 


A titanoboa. 


It was dark green, its scales shining iridescent in the sinking sunlight. Its red eyes flashed as its mouth opened to reveal ivory fangs. Its bulk rippled revoltingly as it covered the ground between them. 


‘No!’ Luke froze. ‘No, please …’


‘Run!’  Robyn  tried  to  drag  Luke  away,  but  he’d  fallen  to  his  knees  in terror. ‘Luke, if you don’t come now –’


‘Make it stop!’ Luke yelled up at the sky, as if shouting at God. ‘Call it off, please. Not the predasaurs. Not again!’


‘Luke?’ Robyn pulled on his arm harder. ‘Please. I won’t leave you –’


The snake was undulating towards them, jaws shaking, almost like it was laughing. 


Luke threw back his head and bellowed again. ‘I brought her to you! Did what you asked! Please …’


Robyn stared, shaken. ‘What?’


The  monstrous  serpent  reared  up,  a  string  of  saliva  hanging  from  its mouth, the scaly patterns on its side dancing as its giant body circled like a noose around them, ready to close in. 


‘Please.’ Luke was sobbing now. ‘ 
Gerhard, please! 
’


The  serpent  froze,  its  tongue  flicking  in  and  out.  But  Robyn  hardly noticed. She went on staring at Luke, feeling sick. ‘Gerhard?’


‘That’s right, Robyn. Me.’


Robyn  spun  around  at  the  sound  of  the  hateful  voice.  Gerhard  stood behind  the  fence,  holding  a  tablet  in  one  hand,  a  smirk  on  his  pale  face. 


Robyn  tried  to  run,  but  Gerhard  tapped  on  the  tablet’s  screen,  and  the titanoboa lunged forward to cut off her bid for escape. 


‘Thank you, Luke,’ Gerhard said approvingly. ‘Thank you for bringing her to me. Now I have two little Ballantynes – and power over their father.’


‘You  never  were  his  prisoner,  were  you,  Luke?’  Robyn  breathed.  ‘You never did escape. Why would you help  
him
?’


‘If I didn’t, he said my mum and dad would be killed.’ Luke looked down at the ground, the words spilling from him. ‘He brought me here and told me to let the Bakho catch me. He reckoned, cos of Xai, that you might try to reach them, so he put me there to watch out for you all.’


‘My spy in the camp,’ Gerhard agreed happily. ‘I had no idea the Bakho were so advanced. Luke tells me that old witch doctor’s natural medicines have had quite the therapeutic effect …’


Robyn  glared  at  Luke  as  everything  fell  into  place.  ‘It  wasn’t  Senosi talking to Gerhard. It was you.’


‘You  have  a  gift  for  stating  the  obvious,  my  dear,’  Gerhard  said  softly. 


‘Now,  Luke.  What  about  the  elders’  miracle  botanical  herb  cures,  hmm? 


Did you bring the plant samples, as instructed?’


Luke lowered his head. 


Gerhard  coldly  stabbed  a  finger  against  the  tablet’s  screen  and  the titanoboa lowered its head too. ‘You did bring them, didn’t you, Luke?’


Robyn could see the monster snake’s jaws twitching, and the raw hunger in its red eyes. She didn’t need to be a snake charmer to know the titanoboa was longing to bite Luke, its predator instincts barely held in check by the implants  that  had  been  inserted  into  its  body.  She  was  both  breathlessly scared  and  sorry  for  the  creature:  a  wild,  incredible  beast  conjured  from ancient times just to be tamed by a twisted master. 


‘I  …  I  couldn’t  find  them.’  Luke  was  sobbing  quietly,  his  eyes  tightly shut. ‘Please, Mr Gerhard. I tried, but Senosi, he keeps the stuff locked up. 


Robyn – you know about the cure, right?’


‘No,’ she snapped. 


‘But they gave it to you –’


‘I wasn’t conscious at the time!’ Robyn broke across him. ‘I was dying!’


‘That’s cute,’ said Gerhard. ‘Your use of the past tense, I mean.  
Was
 dying


…’ He gave a chuckle that chilled Robyn to the bone, but she refused to let him see her reaction to his scare tactics, and kept her attention squarely on Luke. 


‘See what you’ve done?’ she hissed coldly. ‘You would’ve been safe with the Bakho! They’d have helped us.’


‘Oh,  they’ll  be  helping  all  right.’  Gerhard  nodded  slowly.  ‘Now,  come inside. You want to catch up with your brother, don’t you?’


‘So he  
is
 here?’ Robyn hugged herself. ‘He’s all right?’


‘He’s alive.’


‘So what do you want with us now?’


‘Oh,  Robyn,  you  know  me.  I’m  out  for  blood.’  Gerhard  grinned  nastily and swiped his finger across the screen. ‘ 
Ballantyne
 blood.’


As  if  released  from  an  invisible  clamp,  the  titanoboa  twisted  into  life again, circling around Robyn and Luke and hissing angrily. Luke scrambled up. Robyn found herself clinging to him, despite what he’d done. He looked so  wretched.  For  all  her  talk  of  betrayal,  to  save  her  dad  or  Ralph  –  or herself – would she have defied Gerhard? 


The rippling, scaly bulk of the beast made a horrible rasping sound as it stirred the dry soil, shepherding Robyn and Luke away. 


Gerhard watched them go. The serpent ought to lead them to the main doors of the facility without incident, but he knew that one of his team would be monitoring its progress by camera drone, ready to intercede if necessary. To think he’d planned to kill the Ballantyne girl, not suspecting her true value. 


 
Always learning
, he thought happily, swiping on the tablet to call Julius’s private hotline. 


The phone was answered swiftly. ‘Well?’ Mbato demanded. 


‘The boy brought me Ballantyne’s daughter,’ Gerhard said calmly, ‘but not the wild extracts I need to study.’


Mbato’s  tone  was  stony.  ‘I  told  you  he  was  unreliable.  Still,  if  the  girl’s caught the virus and recovered, surely you can compare her blood against her brother’s and see what antibodies can be harvested?’


‘Obviously,’  Gerhard  said  through  gritted  teeth.  ‘But  we  need  to understand the other part of the equation. We need the drugs they used on


her.’


Mbato paused. ‘So, what do you propose?’


‘Your  old  poacher  friends  have  not  yet  secured  Ballantyne  or  the  rest,’


said Gerhard. ‘Perhaps they can better earn their fee on a side-mission …’




24


With  Moth  and  Xai,  Grant  followed  Yonker  along  a  narrow,  almost invisible path up the overgrown mountain slope. Roland had stayed behind in the jeep to take care of Niko, and Grant wondered if he should’ve stayed too. But Niko was insistent – she wanted everyone else as far from her as possible,  so  she  didn’t  infect  them.  Grant  couldn’t  help  wondering  how much longer it would take before the infection tightened its deadly hold on her. 


The path led to the secret cache of weapons – and, according to Moth, it was a starting point for a likely Bakho ‘place of hiding’. The tension and sense of urgency was palpable as they pushed themselves faster and harder over  the  difficult  terrain.  Grant  gazed  down  thirstily  at  a  large  pool  of floodwater  in  the  plain  beside  the  mountainside,  where  a  herd  of  skittish zebras huddled. 


‘I remember this place,’ Xai said quietly. ‘I spent time in these mountains as a child when my parents visited family.’


‘Were your parents forced to leave?’ Moth asked. 


‘No. They simply believed it was best for me,’ Xai said. ‘They tired of the persecution. Of having so little say in their own fates.’ He shrugged. ‘I used to wander around everywhere, sticking my nose into things. The local folks were happy to teach me some skills.’


‘So you were an outsider too,’ Moth said, wondering. 


‘If you love and give to these lands,’ said Xai, ‘you will always be a part of them.’


Just then Yonker came to an abrupt stop. ‘I think I hear …’


The murmur of rotor blades swelled over the treetops. 


‘They’re still searching,’ Grant murmured. 


Xai grabbed Yonker by the shoulder. ‘How far now to your weapons?’


‘Another twenty minutes, at least,’ Yonker said. ‘This track’s exit point is coming up soon, then it’s harder going through the brush.’


‘We need to find cover,’ Grant said. 


‘Look.’ Moth pointed to the helicopter, which rose into sight over the trees like a malevolent horsefly. Lights shining, it hovered over the summit of the rocky outcrop. 


Grant saw black-clad figures drop from it, four of them, silhouetted in the copter’s lights. For a moment he thought they had fallen and were plunging to  their  doom.  But  no;  they  were  rappelling  down  ropes,  dropping  out  of sight. 


‘What are they doing?’ Yonker whispered. ‘There’s nothing there.’


‘That’s one of the sites on Moth’s map,’ said Grant. ‘Maybe they know –’


‘What  Moth  guessed  already,’  Xai  agreed,  gripping  his  assault  rifle. 


‘Yonker, we have to move.’


Yonker pulled a face. ‘Before we’ve got the weapons? Those troops will be armed.’


‘We’ll  scout  around,  get  the  lie  of  the  land,’  Xai  insisted.  ‘We  must  do what we can to help the tribe.’


‘We could use their help with Niko too,’ Grant agreed. 


‘And  if  we  can  take  any  of  Mbato’s  troops  prisoner,  we  might  learn something  that’ll  help  us.  All  right.’  Yonker  pulled  a  flashlight  from  his pocket. ‘Moth, take Grant and get the weapons – bring them back here and wait for us. Any sign of trouble, ditch them and run.’ Yonker placed a hand on Moth’s shoulder and touched his forehead to hers. ‘Who’s my girl, eh?’


‘Me,’ said Moth, and embraced him, then turned and hurried away into the foliage. 


Xai caught Grant’s hand as he made to follow her, then shook it. ‘Till we meet again, my young friend.’


Grant bit his lip and nodded. He had the awful feeling that meeting might never happen. 


The  helicopter  had  dropped  off  all  its  occupants,  and  now  it  rose  higher into the air, turning. Soon it would be overhead. 


‘Move!’ With a hearty shove, Yonker propelled Grant after Moth. 


Grant followed the sound of her progress through the vegetation and the dancing light of her torch beam. Even in the gloom he could see her lithe, nimble  figure  darting  like  a  dragonfly  into  every  gap  in  the  undergrowth and muddy hollow. Well, he was taller but just as determined so, ignoring the  scratches  of  thorns  and  the  bruises  of  branches,  he  fought  his  way through  a  landscape  set  on  keeping  its  secrets.  The  hard  thrust  of  rotors could be heard again, carrying through the leaf canopy. He kept thinking of Roland and Niko, sitting targets in the jeep, and prayed the copter wouldn’t spot them. 


Moth  came  to  a  sudden  stop,  playing  the  torch  beam  around  a  tiny clearing.  She  gave  a  quiet  hiss  of  triumph  as  she  located  an  old  scarf, covered  in  mud  to  disguise  it  as  an  old  vine,  tied  around  a  branch.  She pushed the base of the torch into the muddy ground like a lamp, and began to unwind the material. ‘Help me to pull on it.’


Grant stood beside her and caught hold of the scarf. ‘What do you think the soldiers are doing? Why would mercenaries attack a small tribe?’


‘I  don’t  know.’  She  heaved  on  the  strip  of  fabric,  and  Grant  pulled  too. 


With  a  rattle,  a  panel  of  bamboo  and  brushes  woven  together  with  weeds pulled clear to reveal a long green metal box with a rusting lid, hidden in a hollow.  Grant  helped  Moth  manhandle  it  out.  There  was  a  combination padlock, and Moth quickly opened it. 


Inside were several black plastic cases, neatly packed with insulated foam. 


‘Rifles,  handguns,  ammo,  grenades.  All  there.’  Moth  smiled  sadly.  ‘Dad calls it his insurance. He said he hoped he’d never have to use it.’


Grant picked up a small case with a strap, designed to be worn around the neck. He flipped open the catch and lifted the lid. Inside he found a set of high-powered binoculars. In a pouch in the case was a flashlight. He turned it on and almost blinded himself. ‘Whoa. Stronger than I thought.’


‘I  know  I  am.’  Moth  slammed  the  lid,  smirking.  ‘But  you’ve  still  got  to help me carry this thing.’


Grant raised an eyebrow. ‘Was that you making a joke?’


Moth’s smirk turned into a full-on grin. 


‘We need to get back to the others,’ Grant said. ‘Fast.’


The  path  should’ve  been  easier  to  navigate  on  the  return  journey,  but  it was made a hundred times harder by the heavy box. Grant’s muscles ached and his breath scraped against his dry throat. His clothes were soaked with sweat  and  his  broken  finger,  though  mostly  healed,  soon  throbbed,  as  if sharp teeth were gnawing at his joints. 


Suddenly, there was a crash behind him. Moth had dropped the case. Then she took Grant down in a rough tackle. He fell flat on his face. ‘What the hell …?’


‘Switch  off  your  torch,’  Moth  hissed,  as  she  did  the  same.  They  clung together, gasping for breath. Grant realised how close they were to the track when he heard the sound of running footsteps approaching. 


‘Soldiers,’ Moth hissed. ‘I thought I saw their torchlight.’


Four  men  ran  past  their  hiding  place,  each  weighed  down  with  heavy packs and bags. There was a sound of breaking glass, and someone swore. 


‘Leave it!’ came a low voice. ‘We’ve got enough of their bloody plant life to start our own garden centre.’


The men started to run again, and soon the soldiers passed out of earshot. 


Grant pulled away from Moth and played his own torch around the track. 


He  saw  a  glass  jar  smashed  open  on  a  rock.  Inside  were  narrow,  fibrous leaves in the remains of some unknown solution. From the metallic scent, it wasn’t just water. Grant wiped his hands. 


‘The soldiers said  
their plant life
 …’ he said. ‘Whatever this stuff is, did Mbato’s men steal it from the Bakho?’


‘Makes  sense.  But  what  else  did  they  do?’  Moth’s  face  was  taut  with worry. ‘We need to find Dad and Xai.’


‘No, wait.’ Grant shook his head. ‘Those soldiers must be heading for a rendezvous point to be picked up. If they keep going that way, they’re going to run smack into Roland and Niko. Is there any way we can get to the jeep first and warn them?’


‘The soldiers will most likely stick to the main path,’ Moth said. ‘If we cut down the escarpment, we might just get there first.’ She opened the metal


box,  pulled  out  an  assault  rifle  and  pushed  it  into  Grant’s  arms.  ‘Roland might need this.’


‘So might we,’ Grant said grimly, slotting a loaded clip into the AK-47. 


‘No one’s come running after those soldiers. Not your dad, not Xai, not the San. What happened up there?’


‘Maybe Dad and Xai drove off the soldiers,’ said Moth. ‘I’ll take you to your people – then I’ll come back looking for mine.’


Moth  led  the  way,  and  Grant  followed  close  behind.  He  was  uneasy carrying the assault rifle, and kept checking that the safety was on. He knew that guns could only escalate the situation; if he came face to face with a combat-trained soldier, the AK-47 might prompt them to shoot first and ask questions  later.  But  Roland  was  a  trained  soldier  with  the  experience  and skill  to  enforce  his  will  on  a  combat  situation.  By  delivering  the  weapon, Grant was empowering him to save Niko’s life. 


That was the hope he clung to. 


He and Moth moved quickly and quietly through the denser parts of the forest, fingers over the ends of their torches to smother some of the light. 


Grant  kept  thinking  he  heard  engines  growling,  hoarse  shouts,  but  if  he paused for a moment he could hear nothing. 


 
Just your imagination
, he told himself. It was like a nightmare, running all the  time  but  never  reaching  the  end  of  the  chase,  following  the  dizzying beam of Moth’s torchlight through the crowded forest. Time and again he bruised himself on low branches. Thorns hooked on his sweat-soaked shirt, and he grunted as he forced himself on. 


‘Roland  and  Niko  should  be  just  the  other  side  of  that  scrub  mopane.’


Moth’s grin was as bright as the moonlight. ‘We’ve done it! And we must have reached them ahead of those soldiers …’


But  when  Moth  reached  the  edge  of  the  stunted  trees,  whose  leaves  and branches had been gnawed away by hungry elephants, she stopped. Joining her, Grant swore. 


The jeep had gone. 


‘What  the  hell  happened?’  Grant  muttered,  shining  his  torch  around, praying that he wouldn’t find any sign of Roland and Niko’s bodies. 


Moth  was  focusing  on  the  tracks  left  behind  in  the  shallow  soil.  ‘Looks like the jeep was driven away.’


‘Roland  might  have  seen  the  soldiers  coming  and  moved  it  somewhere safer,’ said Grant. He hoped that wasn’t just wishful thinking. 


‘There are signs of a scuffle in the soil,’ Moth informed him, playing the torch around towards the treeline. ‘And boot prints.’


‘Tyre tracks too,’ Grant noted. ‘But they’re even. No wheelspins or mud churned up to show a quick getaway.’


‘Dragon One, respond.’ A voice carried wire-sharp through the darkness. 


Grant pulled Moth down to the ground, out of sight. 


‘Dragon One, what happened? Where are you?’


‘Dragon’s a call sign,’ Moth whispered. ‘That’s a soldier. Close.’


Grant gripped his rifle. ‘Let’s check it out.’


Stealthy  as  cats,  he  and  Moth  moved  through  the  leafy  darkness.  The voice of the soldier was like a homing signal for them, drawing them in. 


And others too. 


Bright headlights beamed on through the trees ahead of them. The soldier, silhouetted now, barely twenty metres away, opened fire. Grant shielded his eyes and ducked with Moth behind the nearest tree. As his vision adjusted he saw a dark figure detach itself from the shadows and shoot the soldier in the back of the neck. Grant flinched at the callous violence. As the soldier fell,  the  figure  removed  their  well-filled  pack  then  straightened.  Grant caught a glint of gold in a satisfied smile. 


 
Rontane
, he realised. 


The soldier clearly hadn’t been able to get hold of the rest of his unit over the radio, and it wasn’t hard to guess why. The poachers were fighting back: literally stealing the advantage from Mbato’s soldiers by picking them off, one by one. Roland had tricked the two camps into aggression at Yonker’s place, and now the die was cast. Rontane crossed to the headlights. 


‘Looks like Dad’s jeep,’ Moth murmured. 


Grant closed his eyes. ‘Which means that Abrafo and his gang have got Roland and Niko.’




25


Ralph  felt  groggy  and  cold.  Pain  was  arrowing  through  his  back  and  his throat was parched. Gerhard’s pet scientists had taken so much blood that he’d  lost  consciousness.  When  he’d  woken  again,  the  first  thing  he  was aware of was the stench of preservatives and disinfectant in the freezing air, overlying  the  faint  scent  of  rot.  He  recognised  the  smell  from  the  animal pens at Crocodile Lodge – the only part of home that Ralph hadn’t missed these last weeks on the run. 


He  was  lying  on  a  metal  slab,  like  a  corpse.  A  dim  light  shone  through high,  dusty  windows.  
So  not  all  the  complex  is  underground
,  he  thought. 


From  the  outside  the  place  must  look  like  just  another  old  mine  building. 


Inside, however, the feel was more modern and clinical. Steel benches and trolley tables were stacked in one corner. Drainage channels ran across the floor. A sheet covered a lumpy shape on one of the benches like a shroud, and  a  large,  heavy-duty  incinerator  dominated  one  wall,  its  aluminium chimney stretching up through the ceiling.  
That’s why we’re above ground
 
here
, Ralph realised.  
So the smoke and ash from whatever they burn have
 
somewhere to go
. 


He had been dumped in a mortuary for animals. Ready, he guessed, for the next round of tests. 


But  there  was  another  figure  in  the  room,  scarred  and  pale,  slumped against the heavy, aluminium cold-room door. Ralph sat up sharp in shock. 


‘Luke! What’s happening? Why are you here?’


Luke  got  up  stiffly  from  the  floor,  picked  up  a  ceramic  jug  and  poured liquid into a beaker. ‘A mortuary’s the best place for me, huh?’


Ralph thought he must be dreaming. Wild thoughts stabbed at his brain. 


 
They must’ve put Luke in here cos he was dead. Luke’s back as a zombie! 


‘Stay  away,’  Ralph  warned  him,  visions  from   
Resident  Evil
  flashing through his mind. 


Luke frowned. ‘I figured you could use a glass of water.’


‘I mean it!’


‘Come on, get your crap together,’ Luke said sharply, pushing the beaker into  Ralph’s  hands.  ‘You’re  not  dreaming.  I’m  not  a  nightmare.  Gerhard saved me from those monster hyenas cos he wanted to use me … and that’s just what he’s done.’


Ralph pushed aside the mental visions of zombies and swigged the water. 


‘What do you mean?’


‘I’m sorry.’ Luke looked down at the floor, ashamed. ‘I led Robyn here.’


Anger hardened like steel through Ralph’s body. ‘You did what?’


‘The Bakho were looking after her. She was sick, but they helped heal her, and now Gerhard’s got her. He wants to see how she survived the virus.’


‘I thought it was her leg that was bad.’ Ralph scowled and shook his head. 


‘How’s Gerhard going to find out how she survived? By taking her apart, cell by cell?’


‘I don’t know.’ Luke’s watery eyes showed his contrition. ‘I didn’t want to bring Robyn here, dude, but Gerhard threatened my family.’


‘I kind of know the feeling,’ Ralph shot back. 


‘You know what, Ralph? Snark all you want, but where’s that gonna get you?’ Luke looked at him. ‘If we work together, maybe we can get out of here and help Robyn.’


 
You’ve  helped  her  enough
,  Ralph  wanted  to  say,  but  he  bit  his  tongue. 


Begrudgingly, he had to admit that Luke was right; staying angry would do nothing to help the situation. ‘I guess Gerhard doesn’t just want us for our blood. He’ll be using us as bait for Dad.’


‘Right,’ Luke agreed. ‘So, we have to get out of here and help her.’


‘Until Gerhard snaps his fingers and you change sides again?’


Luke  ignored  him  and  knocked  on  the  metal  door.  ‘This  thing  is  locked from the outside. No way out from in here, so … the only chance we have to get out is –’


‘If  we  make  someone  open  it  for  us,’  Ralph  concluded.  ‘Agreed,  but how?’


‘It’s  mostly  doctors  and  vets  and  stuff  here,  right?  Not  rangers,  like Gerhard’s  reserve.  There’s  only  Abi  –  and  she’s  injured.’  Luke  shrugged. 


‘All we need is for them to open the door …’


‘And  then  maybe  we  can  surprise  them.  Force  our  way  out.’  Ralph frowned.  ‘But  even  if  we  manage  to  get  outside,  there  are  giant  mega-snakes  guarding  the  fence.  Those  things  are  the  reason  Gerhard  doesn’t need a ton of guards.’


Luke  shuddered,  looking  pale.  ‘Jeez,  I  hate  snakes.  Even  regular  ones. 


That thing I saw outside … it was terrifying.’


 
Try  finding  yourself  half  inside  one
,  thought  Ralph.  ‘It’s  how  Gerhard controls them from his tablet that freaks me out. How does he do it?’


Luke  raised  his  eyebrows  and  pondered.  ‘He  must  use  an  AI  chip hardwired into the snakes’ brains, like a secondary brain, ready to suppress and correct the snake’s natural behaviour whenever it’s activated.’


Ralph was impressed. ‘How’d you know that?’


‘My  dad  runs  the  biggest  security  tech  business  in  South  Africa,’  Luke reminded him. ‘What Gerhard’s done is genius, obvs, but it’s basically the same as using your smartphone to control the lights and the thermostat in your home. Only the software and the sensors must be a million times more complicated.’


‘Making  a  snake  into  a  living  robot  …’  Ralph  had  to  marvel  at  the technology. ‘What does that take?’


‘A brain’s just another computer, right?’ Luke said. ‘But it uses chemical signals  as  well  as  electrical  ones.  So  if  Gerhard’s  controlling  it,  his computer chip must be hacking those signals, yeah?’


‘But  a  brain’s  got  millions  of  neurons  to  do  its  thinking,’  Ralph  argued, channelling his biology teacher. ‘How does Gerhard’s chip bypass that?’


‘It  must  have  online  connectivity.  It’ll  be  linked  to  some  big  data analysis,’ Luke said. ‘Gerhard’s working those snakes from a tablet, but that can’t have the computing power he’d need …’ He clicked his fingers. ‘It’s


like remote desktop gaming. There must be a data centre here, packed full of servers that do all the processing – crunching all the numbers you need to simulate those neuron things.’


Ralph  felt  optimism  rise  falteringly  inside  him.  ‘If  you’re  right,  then we’ve got two options,’ Ralph said. ‘We can steal Gerhard’s tablet and try to control the mega-snakes ourselves …’


‘Oh yeah, I can totally see him handing that over,’ Luke said drily. ‘And I can  see  us  working  it  first  time  without  a  hitch  while  being  chased  by literally everyone.’


‘Then we’ve got one option,’ Ralph said. ‘Find Gerhard’s data centre and trash it – so then no one can control the mega-snakes.’


Luke  looked  at  him.  ‘So  they’ll  still  want  to  catch  and  kill  us,  but  they won’t have an off switch.’


‘At  least  we  might  stand  a  chance,’  Ralph  said  fiercely.  ‘At  least  we wouldn’t be the only ones the snakes would be after. But we’re gonna stand no chance at all if we can’t get out of this mortuary …’ He tailed off. He had  heard  something.  A  low  note,  slowly  stealing  into  the  landscape outside. ‘Engine noise,’ Ralph said. ‘Someone’s coming.’


Luke heard the sound and looked up at the high window. ‘If we push this table over and stick a chair on it … I can’t climb so well any more, but I guess you can.’


Ralph felt a pang of sympathy, and guilt that he’d come through Gerhard’s games a little better than Luke. So far, at least. Luke held the chair steady while  Ralph  climbed  up  and  peered  out  through  the  glass.  He  saw  a  jeep driving  towards  the  canteen  building.  With  a  shiver,  he  saw  that  Rontane was  in  the  driver’s  seat.  Beside  her  was  a  heavy-set  man  he  didn’t recognise. But when the jeep pulled up just outside the main doors, he saw who was in the back of the jeep, guarded by two more poachers. His heart stuttered. 


It was Roland Ballantyne. 


He  was  dragged  out,  semi-conscious,  his  hands  cuffed  behind  his  back, leaving Niko slumped on the back seat. 


‘Dad,’ Ralph whispered. 


‘No way!’ Luke swore. ‘Is he coming to the rescue?’


‘No.  He’s  a  prisoner.  Niko  too,  only  she  looks  really  sick.’  As  Ralph watched,  two  people  came  outside,  clothed  head  to  toe  in  hazard  suits, looking like astronauts on a lunar surface, carrying a stretcher. They swiftly transferred Niko onto it and vanished inside as quickly as they’d appeared. 


Ralph bit his lip as he saw his dad try to bolt from his captors. But the man in the front was surprisingly fast. He tripped Roland so he fell face-first in the dust. Rontane kicked him in the ribs before the two poachers dragged him to his feet. 


Straining  to  hear  over  his  racing  heart,  Ralph  caught  his  dad’s  words. 


‘Where’re they taking her, Abrafo?’


‘You’ll see,’ the man said. 


‘Abrafo.’ Ralph felt dread whisper along his spine as his dad was forced inside the building. 


‘Who’s Abrafo?’ Luke asked. 


‘Another  worst  nightmare.  Things  are  kicking  off,’  Ralph  said,  looking down  at  Luke.  ‘We’ve  got  to  get  out  of  here  and  find  Dad  and  Niko  and Robyn. Somehow, we’ve just got to!’


Grant  woke  to  the  sound  of  heavy  footsteps  crashing  through  the undergrowth. Light spilled through the cracks in the rotten tree trunk he lay in,  and  he  cursed  himself  for  falling  asleep.  Where  was  Moth?  She  was meant to be keeping guard. The rifle was still clasped to his chest but there was  no  way  he  could  use  it  here  even  if  he’d  wanted  to.  The  steps  got closer. 


‘It’s all right.’ Moth sounded excited. ‘Come out.’


‘Where’d you go?’


‘I heard a noise,’ she said, as Grant emerged from inside the log, ‘and so I left you while I went to see …’


‘And she found us!’ Yonker burst into the clearing like a bear chasing a picnic basket. ‘We’re all right, boy! Skin of our teeth, though, eh? Quite the 
jollie patrollie
.’


‘I am seriously glad to see you,’ said Grant. ‘We were going to look for you at dawn, but it was too risky in the dark with soldiers and poachers and


–’


‘Moth  told  us  what  happened,’  said  Yonker.  ‘I’m  sorry  we  left  you hanging. Things got serious at Bakho Mountain.’


Grant frowned. ‘Then … you managed to find the place?’


‘Your  friend  called  it  Bakho  Mountain.  We  call  it  home.’  Another  man entered the clearing, dressed in a scorched, crumpled patchwork of brightly coloured prints and leathers. ‘Forgive my appearance. I am Senosi, a leader among  my  people.’  He  was  carrying  a  cracked  glass  case  with  some withered-looking  leaves  inside.  ‘Those  soldiers  –  men  sent  by  Mbato  –


rappelled into our land to steal and kill.’


‘We cut a path through in time to help,’ Xai said. ‘But some of them got away.’


‘Reckon the poachers took care of them,’ Grant said. ‘Permanently.’


‘Ten  of  my  brothers  and  sisters  have  been  murdered,’  Senosi  said.  ‘So much violence, inflicted solely so they could steal all supplies of a drug we discovered. A drug that could change the course of the new pandemic. And half of the supplies they took are ruined, discarded on the ground.’


Moth  blinked.  ‘Plant  cures?  I  had  heard  that  the  Bakho  use  special medicines  the  West  doesn’t  have,’  she  said.  ‘The  West  always  thinks  it’s fine to take from … from you.’


Senosi  looked  at  Moth  intently,  sizing  her  up.  Then  he  spoke  slowly  in Bakho. 


Moth  looked  shocked,  but  she  found  her  voice  and  managed  to  say something back. 


‘I disagree,’ Senosi said with a smile. ‘I think you speak our dialect very well.’


Yonker nodded, pride in his eyes. ‘Doesn’t she just. And I never knew.’


‘Well,  events  like  last  night’s  make  fast  learners  of  us  all,’  Senosi declared. 


‘Clearly we have a common enemy, Senosi,’ said Xai, getting them back on track. ‘We both need precious things returned to us.’


‘No doubt they were taken to Gerhard’s lab complex at the old mine,’ said Senosi. ‘Our trackers have already followed Robyn and Luke there …’


‘Luke?’ Grant reacted as if he’d been struck. ‘Luke van Rok?’


Senosi nodded. 


‘But  Luke’s  dead!  We  heard  it  happen  …  we  heard  him  screaming  for help!’


‘Gerhard called off his predasaurs and let him live. Must’ve decided Luke was worth more to him alive,’ said Xai. 


Grant  couldn’t  believe  what  he  was  hearing.  ‘We  need  to  get  to  this  old mine,’ he said. ‘If Gerhard’s there, that’s got to be where Abrafo would take Roland and Niko and the Bakho medicines.’


‘He  holds  everything  that  Gerhard  and  Mbato  want,’  Xai  agreed.  ‘Now he’s taken care of the mercs, he can pretty much name his price.’


‘I bet Mbato’s already on his way,’ said Grant. ‘So, what do we do? Take the weapons and hit Gerhard’s base?’


‘I don’t see that we have a choice,’ said Yonker. ‘Senosi, you must have warriors in the tribe, right?’


Senosi looked unhappy. ‘We have already lost so many today …’


‘But we have to fight,’ Moth said solemnly. ‘Don’t we?’




26


Robyn  strained  against  the  handcuffs  that  attached  her  to  the  head  of  the stainless-steel  trolley  table,  though  she  knew  it  was  hopeless.  She  was chafing  her  wrists  raw  and  there  was  no  chance  of  the  cuffs  giving  –


particularly  since  she’d  had  so  much  blood  taken  by  Gerhard’s  medical staff,  plus  the  samples  that  Senosi  had  taken.  If  only  she  was  back  there, safe. If only Ralph had found his way there too! 


A doctor in a mask and scrubs was labelling the latest phial of her blood. 


‘You might as well stop trying to fight the table and just lie on it.’


Robyn let her burning arms hang limp and closed her eyes. Gerhard had taken  her  to  an  anteroom  beside  a  well-equipped  operating  theatre,  and she’d noted from the pens in the recovery area that it was designed for large animals, not people. The medics she’d met might well have been veterinary technicians  by  trade;  they’d  certainly  treated  her  like  an  animal,  talking about her as if she wasn’t able to hear or understand, prodding her awake when  she  fell  asleep,  squirting  water  down  her  throat  with  a  tube  to  keep her hydrated. It was perhaps the worst nightmare she’d had to endure, and she kept thinking:  
How much more of this can I take? 


‘Does it make you feel better about what you’re doing here?’ she hissed. 


‘Is it easier if you pretend that I’m an animal for testing, not a fifteen-year-old girl your boss has kidnapped?’


‘You’re a dangerous fugitive, we’re told,’ one of the masked medics said, and  Robyn  recognised  the  voice  at  once.  The  ‘medic’  pulled  down  her


mask. It was Abi. 


Robyn recovered from her surprise. ‘You’re a doctor now? I thought you were in security.’


‘I  trained  as  a  field  medic  in  the  army,’  she  said.  ‘Shrinker’s  work  paid better.’


‘Until it nearly killed you.’ Robyn glared at her. ‘I saved your life.’


‘If  I  don’t  do  what  Gerhard  tells  me  –  even  mopping  the  floors  –  I’m dead,’ Abi said quietly. ‘Dead as your whole family’s going to wind up.’


Robyn swallowed hard. ‘Ralph … he’s not …’


‘Oh, for now, he’s peachy. Thanks to him, we finally got a hold of your phone. The one with the video of Mbato leading the hunting party after the sarcosuchus.’


Robyn felt sick but tried to keep her face neutral. The handset was dead after so long without charging, but some nights, knowing that the precious evidence  against  their  president  was  buried  safely  inside  that  electronic tomb was the only thing that kept her going. It offered some small hope that they would bring Mbato’s crimes to light and him to justice, whatever spin the president tried to put on it. 


‘Gerhard dumped the handset in acid,’ Abi said simply. 


‘That … that doesn’t matter.’ Robyn closed her eyes. ‘We uploaded it to the cloud straight after taking it –’


‘With no signal? Give it up, Robyn,’ Abi said. ‘In any case, you’d need something  way  more  impressive  than  a  shaky  video  to  bring  down  the president and his number-one donor.’ She sounded almost disappointed. 


Robyn was about to tell Abi to go to hell when a haunting, high-pitched cry cut the air like a knife. Robyn realised it was coming from a pen in the next room; an animal had woken in distress. ‘What animal is that?’


‘Woolly rhino,’ Abi said, turning back to the phial of blood and placing it in a sterile envelope. 


‘What’s  wrong  with  it?’  Robyn  demanded,  as  grunting  sobs  carried  into the operating room. ‘It sounds like it’s in pain.’


‘It probably is.’


‘Then give it something that will help!’


‘Can’t,’ said Abi dully. ‘Pain and stress make them better predasaurs.’


‘Do you hear yourself?’ Robyn hissed, her whisper as icy as the sterile air. 


Abi limped away with her blood sample. Robyn raised her voice: ‘Do you see  what  you’ve  become?  It’s  one  thing  to  beat  up  people,  but  helpless animals …’


It  was  no  use.  Abi’s  face  was  turned  away  as  she  left,  closing  the  door quietly behind her. 


Robyn  relaxed  her  arms  and  pulled  away  from  the  trolley  as  far  as  she could to try to see the woolly rhino in the next room. A tingle ran through her as she made eye contact with a beast that hadn’t walked the planet for 50,000 years. Although young, it was already as big as a sideboard. Its eyes were bloodshot, but albino pink rather than red; it didn’t seem as crazed and angry as the other predasaurs she’d seen, either, despite whatever Gerhard was doing to it. 


The  beast  was  fidgeting,  twitching,  snorting,  banging  its  stubby  horn against the bars of its cage. 


‘It’s  all  right,’  she  whispered.  ‘You’ll  get  through  this  …’  Robyn’s attempts to reach out to Gerhard’s creations had always crashed and burned. 


 
But  if  it  knows  pain
,  she  reasoned,  
perhaps  it  can  sense  kindness
.  She calmed her breathing and maintained eye contact, willing the young animal to trust her. It was difficult over a distance, but she ignored her own pain and focused on trying to soothe the juvenile. Slowly, the young rhino began to  stop  fidgeting.  It  held  eye  contact  with  her.  Still  it  snorted,  but  not  so loudly. Robyn felt a thrill stir in her soul at the unexpected connection. 


But  then  the  door  behind  her  was  flung  open.  Robyn  gasped  and  jolted. 


The  woolly  rhino  squealed  in  alarm  and  began  to  whine.  When  she  saw who had entered, Robyn wanted to do the same. 


Gerhard stood in the doorframe. Rontane hovered just behind him, loaded up with jars of green fluid that Robyn thought she’d seen before in Senosi’s lab.  Next  to  them  a  dark  window  in  the  wall  suddenly  flickered  with brightness – an observation window for the operating theatre situated next door. Two people in PPE were fussing over someone on a table –


‘Niko?’ Robyn breathed. 


‘Oh. You’ve spoiled the surprise now,’ Gerhard said wryly. ‘Your father’s girlfriend is at death’s door, it seems. She has the virus.’


‘How  …  convenient  for  you,’  Robyn  said,  trying  to  stay  cool.  ‘You  can test out your cure on her.’


‘One doesn’t synthesise a vaccine overnight,’ Gerhard informed her. ‘But your blood differs from your brother’s in several small, but important, ways as  a  result  of  your  infection  –  and  subsequent  treatment.  A  blood transfusion from you is worth a try.’


Robyn felt a prickle of hope stir inside her. ‘You think a direct transfusion could help Niko?’


‘I  know  your  father  has  a  natural  immunity  to  Ebola.  I  suspect  that  the Bakho plant cure has boosted the antiviral proteins in your blood – type I interferons, which limit the way the virus replicates. Or perhaps it’s certain immune  cells  –  memory  T-cells  that  formed  during  your  infections  –  that are boosted by the plants. So much to learn, eh, my dear? And poor Niko is dying  to  find  out  …’  He  tipped  his  head  to  one  side  and  smiled.  ‘The problem  is,  we’ve  taken  so  much  blood  out  of  you  already.  So,  if  you  do give her a transfusion, you could die.’


Robyn refused to show her fear. ‘How do you even know that my blood’s compatible with Niko’s?’


‘Because  your  daddy  told  me  …’  Gerhard’s  lips  pulled  back  in  a  rictus grin. ‘In the end.’


‘Dad!’ Robyn cried as Roland Ballantyne was pushed in through the door by a stocky, bearded man. 


‘Robyn,’ Roland said hoarsely, eyes bright in his bloodied face. ‘Are you all right?’


The man jammed a gun to his jaw. ‘Quit shooting your mouth off. Or it happens for real.’


‘You  have  no  say  in  what  happens  to  me,’  Roland  said  coldly,  with  a glance at Gerhard. ‘Or is Angel Abrafo running the show now?’


‘Abrafo?’ Robyn stared, askance. So this was the man she’d heard tales of for so long. The man with so much blood on his hands, and nothing in his eyes but money. 


‘Mr Abrafo is for Mbato to deal with,’ Gerhard said airily. ‘And indeed, Mr Ballantyne is right to be concerned. If we don’t attempt a transfusion, Niko  will  surely  die.  But  if  we  do,  he  could  lose  Robyn  as  well.  It’s  a dilemma, for sure.’


‘No dilemma,’ Robyn said shakily. ‘I’m strong enough.’


Roland looked at her. ‘No one has the right to ask you to do this, Robyn –’


‘And no one has the right to stop me.’ She’d made up her mind. Niko had fought with them, saved them, endured every hardship with them. And her dad loved Niko. Robyn would save her if she could. 


‘If you’re through with the nauseating platitudes, we have a medical team itching  to  get  going  here.’  Gerhard  put  a  hand  on  Robyn’s  shoulder.  ‘The work we do here could help us to save millions.’


‘And help you to make  
billions
,’ Roland said, disgusted. ‘You’ll be able to name your price for a vaccine against a virus you unleashed yourself.’


‘Yes,  I  will,  won’t  I?  All  thanks  to  you  Ballantynes.’  Gerhard  gave  a happy  little  sigh.  ‘That  deserves  a  reward,  doesn’t  it?  Tell  you  what.  I’ll keep Mbato’s hands off you for just a while longer.’


‘Hold  on,  
Mr
  Gerhard,’  Rontane  drawled.  ‘We  just  took  out  a  squad  of mercs. We’re not hanging around this freak house for their mates to follow up in that helicopter.’


‘We kept our side of the contract,’ Abrafo agreed. ‘Now Mbato needs to call off his dogs and pay us.’


‘Oh, he’ll pay all right,’ Roland muttered. 


Gerhard  nodded  to  the  operating  room,  where  the  medical  technicians were setting up IV bags and drips around Niko. ‘He might pay less for her dead than alive.’


‘You’ve  got  a  nerve.  If  this  virus  really   
is
  yours,  you  should  be  paying extra – compensation for Chikondi’s death.’ Rontane raised one of the jars of dirty green water, ready to shatter it on the ground. ‘You should know: give less, get less.’


‘So, get on to Mbato,’ said Abrafo threateningly. ‘Right now.’


Gerhard  gave  them  an  icy  look  before  resuming  his  urbane  manner.  ‘I understand,’ he purred. ‘You beat the competition to the kill like true apex predators. I commend you for that. But Mbato invested in those mercenaries


–’


‘I’m happy to discuss that with him.’ Abrafo smiled mirthlessly. ‘So, get him on the line.’


‘What  about  Niko?’  Robyn  said.  ‘While  you’re  gloating  with  the president, she’s going downhill with every breath.’


‘The medics are assessing Ms Haart’s baseline vital signs,’ Gerhard said, pulling out his phone. ‘And you must be prepped also, my dear. We have a few minutes yet.’


Robyn looked at her dad. She wanted to cry, seeing his face so bruised and bloodied. 


‘I’m OK,’ he mouthed to her. 


‘Me too,’ she mouthed back. 


The door opened and Abi came back in, leaning heavily on her makeshift crutch. ‘You called me, sir?’


‘About  time,’  Gerhard  snapped,  tapping  on  his  phone.  ‘Get  Miss Ballantyne ready for direct donor transfusion.’


Abi shifted uncomfortably. ‘A reminder, sir, that I’m out of practice with


–’


‘No excuses,’ Gerhard snapped. ‘You’re only assisting with the procedure. 


This is an ideal opportunity to see the effects of the girl’s blood in an active intervention. If Ms Haart makes a full or partial recovery, we’ll know that our  miracle  cure  is  on  the  right  track.’  He  smiled  at  Robyn.  ‘And  you’ll know you’re performing an invaluable service for Mbato by keeping your could’ve-been-step-mummy alive to face justice …’


Robyn looked away. But when she saw Abi sorting through large syringes and cannulas from a box of veterinary supplies, she wished she hadn’t. 


‘Ah!’ said Gerhard into his phone. ‘Julius? How’s the pandemic playing out?’


Abrafo signalled with the gun for Gerhard to put the call on speakerphone so he could hear. It seemed he didn’t trust Gerhard either. 


‘The  virus  is  spreading  fast.’  Mbato’s  voice  sounded  through  the  room. 


‘Compared to Covid, there are more cases that are asymptomatic, but those who  get  it  are  dying  fast.  We  could  be  looking  at  the  biggest  contagion since the Black Death.’


Robyn felt a chill run through her. To know that she might hold the key to helping save lives on such a scale – and that she might die in the process …


It felt overwhelming. 


‘Now, you promised me news, Gerhard. We’ve lost contact with most of Dragon squad. What’s happened?’


‘They’re casualties of war.’ Abrafo left his sidekick to guard Roland while he sauntered over to Gerhard. ‘But their mission was a success … for us.’


‘Abrafo?’ Mbato paused. ‘I’d given up on you. Thought you’d failed me.’


‘Then you are foolish … sir,’ Abrafo said. ‘Back in your army days, I paid you to turn a blind eye to my business. Now you will pay me for doing your business.’


‘I already paid a good deal up front to those mercenaries.’


‘We  all  make  business  decisions  we  come  to  regret.’  Abrafo  chuckled. 


‘Come through for us, or you’ll regret that particular decision a great deal.’


‘Very well. I’ll transfer funds to the usual account, Abrafo,’ Mbato said. 


‘With  deductions  in  place  for  failing  to  hand  over  Xai  and  the  Khumalo boy.’


Abrafo’s  face  darkened.  ‘You  have  the  Ballantynes!  They’re  the  real targets.’


‘Strictly speaking,’ Gerhard put in, ‘it was me who successfully abducted the Ballantyne children.’


‘But we got the Bakho medicines,’ Rontane snarled, holding up her haul. 


‘If you don’t want them, just say so and I’ll burn the whole lot. Good luck with staying in power without your vaccine, Mr President.’


Robyn watched with dread as Abi added forceps and clips to her storage box  full  of  medical  paraphernalia,  then  walked  towards  her.  The  woman seemed nervous, but then Robyn supposed that a transfusion like this was hardly  everyday  stuff.  Quietly  Abi  sorted  through  the  keys  on  a  big  ring, ready  to  unlock  Robyn’s  handcuffs.  It  had  become  habitual  for  Robyn  to search  any  situation  for  a  chance  to  escape,  but  she  realised  here  that  the strategy was no use. Even if she did get away, Niko would die. 


‘All  right,  Abrafo,’  said  Mbato  after  deliberating.  ‘We’ll  do  business  as arranged. But I want Xai and Khumalo delivered too.’


‘Xai’s a Bakho – maybe they’ve seen him and the boy?’ Abrafo shrugged. 


‘We can round them up and kill the rest of the Bakho if you want. Blame it on Dragon squad, say they went rogue.’


‘That may not be necessary. You can bet that Ballantyne’s little rogue will be planning a rescue mission,’ Mbato went on. ‘Put Ballantyne somewhere prominent and he’ll make fine bait.’


Robyn saw her dad sneer and turn his face away. 


‘Bait for a snake trap,’ said Gerhard, a smile spreading over his face. ‘Pity the  drones  are  still  on  charge.  A  titanoboa  ambush  would  make  the  most breath-taking cut-scene for  
The Serpent’s Lair
.’


‘You’re  sick,’  Robyn  breathed  as  Abi  undid  her  cuffs  at  last.  Robyn rubbed her aching wrists. ‘All of you. Sick!’


‘Come on,’ Abi told Robyn quietly. ‘Time to go.’


‘The  transfusion  is  about  to  begin,  Julius,’  Gerhard  informed  him.  ‘A better test of the girl’s remarkable blood we couldn’t hope for.’


‘For all our sakes,’ said Mbato, ‘it had better work.’


He rang off, and the woolly rhino gave a screech, as if in protest. Gerhard smiled. ‘Ah. Pain and stress stimulate several adaptive hormonal responses in  the  animal’s  adrenal  cortex.  Perhaps  its  pain  is  finally  translating  into aggression. It might enjoy a stay of execution after all …’


One  of  the  medics  from  the  operating  room  came  in  and  wordlessly collected Abi’s box of gear for the transfusion. 


‘Come on,’ Abi said. ‘Let’s get on with it.’ She grabbed Robyn by the arm and pushed her towards the door. 


Robyn looked back at her dad as she was hauled into the operating room. 


He tried to give her a reassuring smile, but it only showed her that one of his teeth had been knocked out. She reached out to him with her free hand –


then the door swung closed, cutting off contact. 




27


Ralph was peering out of the narrow, grubby windows in the mortuary. He could  see  two  men  hammering  a  metal  pole  into  the  ground,  like  an enormous stake, some fifty metres away. They shook the pole to make sure it was secure then walked back to the main entrance. 


‘What’s going on out there?’ Luke asked, climbing precariously up onto the chair to join him. ‘See anything?’


‘Someone’s being brought out …’ The words died in Ralph’s throat as he realised  the  ‘someone’  was  his  father.  The  two  men  had  hauled  Roland Ballantyne  outside  with  a  chain  around  his  ankle.  Now  they  secured  that chain to the pole. 


‘Why hold him outside?’ Ralph muttered. 


‘Quarantine?’ Luke suggested. 


‘Or as bait.’ Ralph watched as the two men left. The moment they were gone, Roland started to struggle against his restraints. But he stopped when an  enormous,  undulating  shadow  came  sidewinding  through  the  dust towards him. 


‘Titanoboa,’ Luke breathed. 


The  beast  was  blue-black,  like  a  monstrous,  flailing  artery  brought  to horrible life. How could something so enormous move so fast? It bore down on Roland with such speed that Ralph barely had time to scream. ‘Dad!’


But  the  writhing  predasaur  slithered  past  Roland  as  if  he  wasn’t  there. 


Ralph  strained  to  see  where  it  went,  but  his  view  from  the  window  was restricted. Even so, he could hear the sinister hiss and click of its flickering tongue. 


‘It must be sheltering behind that outhouse,’ Luke realised. 


‘Hiding,’ Ralph agreed. ‘Waiting.’


Luke frowned. ‘Waiting for someone to take the bait and rescue your old man?’


‘Someone like Xai. Got to be. And then the snake attacks.’ Ralph jumped down from his perch and banged his fists against the cold-room door. ‘Let us out of here!’ They were running out of time. 


‘Can’t  see  anyone  rushing  to  do  that,’  Luke  said  dourly.  ‘Maybe  if  we pretend we’re sick, someone might come and –’


‘Unless they’re right outside the door, how will they know? No. We need to pull something unmissable …’ Ralph stared around the room. His eyes lingered  on  the  large,  gun-metal  grey  incinerator  with  its  heavy  hinged doors. ‘Something like fire.’


Luke looked confused. ‘Huh?’


‘They  burn  animal  corpses  in  that  thing,’  said  Ralph.  ‘And  look.’  He pointed to the high ceiling. ‘Sprinklers and an alarm.’


‘Makes sense, in case of fire.’


‘So let’s start one,’ said Ralph, crossing to the incinerator and studying the controls. It wasn’t a million miles from the model his dad used back home to convert household waste to energy for the lodge using a steam turbine. 


‘It’ll take ages to get this thing up to a proper incinerator temperature, but we don’t need that.’ He switched on the machine, and there was an intense hum of power. ‘Just enough to start something smouldering …’


Luke nodded to the bulk under the shroud. ‘Whatever that is?’


Ralph crossed over to the table, braced himself, then pulled the sheet away to expose the carcass of a juvenile mammoth. He shuddered as he saw the rough incisions made in the skull, presumably to get at the control chip.  
No
 
respect for the animals they create
, Ralph thought sourly.  
They
 
just slice in
 
and see if the latest genetic modifications have worked. 
‘Guess it’s not so easy to control the movement of animals with four limbs. Must be why they put snakes on guard duty.’


‘We saw that one slide into place,’ said Luke, pacing the room. ‘But we don’t have much of a view from here. There could be others.’


Ralph nodded. ‘So, the sooner you take them all out, the better.’


‘Me?!’ Luke shook his head. ‘No pressure, huh?’


‘Yeah,  pressure,’  Ralph  said,  bundling  up  the  sheet  that  had  covered  the mammoth. 


‘Wait a sec.’ Luke crossed to a shelf and picked up a bottle. ‘Look at this. 


Formaldehyde.’ He tossed it to Ralph. ‘That’s flammable.’


Ralph caught it and studied the label. He grinned. ‘That should get the fire going  a  little  faster.’  He  tipped  the  fluid  onto  the  sheet  and  he  and  Luke winced at the pungent, sharp-sour smell. Then he rolled up the sodden sheet and put one end inside the incinerator. It was already hot in there, but Ralph knew it would need to get a whole lot hotter. 


‘Come  on,’  he  muttered.  Nervously  he  climbed  up  to  the  window  once more, to check on his dad. Roland Ballantyne was still chained by his ankle to the pole. The chittering hiss of titanoboas carried over the distant thrum of cicadas in the wilderness beyond the fence. 


Then Ralph’s guts twisted as he spied two figures inside the compound, a man and a woman, approaching cautiously. ‘Oh no. People coming!’


Luke gave him a sharp look. ‘Poachers? Guards?’


‘They … look like they’re from a San community. Traditional San.’ Ralph took in the man’s clothes, which were made from animal skins, draped in a rectangle over his shoulder and chest. The woman – or was it a girl? – wore a  black  cloak  threaded  with  brightly  coloured  beads.  Each  carried  a  bow with a quiver full of arrows. The man held a spear for good measure. 


‘Get back!’ Roland’s yell carried faintly through the glass as he struggled against his chains. ‘Not safe! It’s a trap! Get back!’


‘They don’t have a clue what’s waiting for them,’ Ralph muttered. 


Suddenly the fabric caught fire, all in a crackling rush. Luke stepped back as  thick,  white  smoke  filled  the  air,  far  more  quickly  than  Ralph  had expected. His eyes stung. Luke helped to catch him as he half jumped, half stumbled from the chair, then carried him in a low stoop over to the door. It only took a few more moments for the smoke alarm to sound its piercing cry. 


‘Stay low now,’ Luke shouted over it. ‘There’s no good doing all this if we’re too busy choking to escape!’


‘Fair,’ Ralph agreed. 


In the smoke-filled silence, they waited for someone to arrive. 


Hooked  up  to  a  heart  monitor,  Robyn  tried  to  distract  herself  from  her predicament  by  staring  at  Niko.  The  woman’s  face  was  barely  visible beneath  the  mask  feeding  her  oxygen.  
Who’d  have  thought  that  I’d  ever
 
want the same thing as Gerhard? 
 she thought. 


Robyn looked back at how far they’d come, her and Niko. She’d hated the woman for so long, that very particular hate born from resentment and fear: resentment  at  Niko  taking  her  father’s  attention  away  from  her.  Fear  that Niko would muddy Mum’s memory. 


 
But look at all we’ve been through
, she thought.  
We’ve lived together in a
 
jeep  for
 
weeks.  We’ve  been  attacked,  hunted,  infected.  Risked  our  lives,
 
helped  and  healed  each  other. 
  She  traced  her  fingers  gently  over  the puckered  wound  in  her  leg  that  Niko  had  sealed  with  the  plastic  strips. 


 
We’ve  survived, 
 she  thought  fiercely,  
  whatever  it  took,  however  close  to
 
death we were. 


‘And  you’re  not  stopping  now,’  Robyn  murmured  to  Niko’s  pale,  still body. ‘You  
will
 be OK.’


‘Muttering prayers?’ Abi remarked, as the lead medic directed her to rinse out a syringe with saline solution. ‘I’m not sure anyone’s listening.’


Robyn eyed the syringe. ‘What’s going to happen?’


The medic looked at her. His eyes were his only features visible past his PPE.  ‘We’ll  extract  your  blood,  20  cc  at  a  time,  then  inject  it  into  Niko, through a cannula.’


‘Doesn’t sound too bad,’ Robyn said cautiously. 


Abi  shook  her  head.  ‘If  we’re  going  to  make  a  difference  to  Niko’s condition, we’re going to need at least one and a half litres of your blood –


roughly forty per cent of your total supply.’


‘But you’ve already taken blood from me,’ Robyn said. 


‘Yes, and you won’t have replaced it all yet.’ The medic paused. ‘There’s a good chance you’ll go into hypovolemic shock. Your heart rate will rise


and your blood pressure drop. Your body will divert blood away from your limbs and intestines to your heart and brain. We’ll give you oxygen, but …’


‘Will I die?’


‘Who knows?’ said the medic, walking away to get more equipment. ‘If you do survive, there could well be organ damage.’


Robyn swallowed hard. ‘But will Niko live?’


‘Who’s  to  say?  Could  all  be  for  nothing.  She’s  a  tough  woman  but  we think  there’s  some  internal  bleeding.’  Abi  sighed.  ‘The  big  problem  is  if your blood starts clotting while we’re feeding it to her. And since we’ll be reusing syringes, there’s a risk of passing on infection unless we clean them thoroughly. It all adds time.’


‘Then you’d better start, hadn’t you?’ Robyn said, closing her eyes. 


Abi hesitated. ‘Listen, Robyn …’


But  then  the  medic  came  over.  ‘Syringes  prepped?’  he  asked,  and  Abi nodded. 


‘Then you can insert the cannula.’


With a nod, Abi took Robyn’s wrist and rubbed some alcohol from a swab onto it. She applied a little Vaseline to the cannula. Robyn closed her eyes, felt the cold, hard scratch of the needle –


Then  a  siren  went  off  outside,  piercing  and  shrill.  Robyn  jumped  and gasped with pain as the cannula twisted in her wrist. 


‘Hold still!’ Abi hissed. 


‘Is that the fire alarm?’ Robyn cried. 


There was a banging from the observation window. Gerhard’s face was at the glass, grey eyes bulging as he mouthed, ‘Get on with it.’ Then he turned away to harangue Abrafo and Rontane. 


‘Here goes everything, Robyn,’ said Abi. And the needle went in. 




28


From  the  cover  of  trees  on  the  far  side  of  the  mine  workings,  Grant crouched  beside  Yonker,  Senosi,  and  the  eight  Bakho  warriors  who  had been  chosen  for  the  mission.  All  were  watching  tensely  as  Roland Ballantyne struggled against his chains under the sun’s cruel brilliance. 


Grant scowled. It was just like Gerhard to humiliate his opponent but, like everyone else, he suspected there was more to this display. Roland had to be the bait in a trap of some kind. 


That  was  why  Xai  and  Moth  had  disguised  themselves  as  tribespeople before  breaching  the  fence.  They  carried  the  simple  but  effective  hunting weapons of the Bakho – a bow with arrows dipped in poison made from the larvae  of  leaf  beetles,  and  a  spear  dipped  in  the  same.  If  Gerhard  or  his goons were watching, they would no doubt be sniggering at the sight of two natives  unwittingly  walking  into  deadly  danger,  under-equipped  and unprepared. 


Which was exactly what they were supposed to think. Yonker and Xai had reasoned that such a low-key incursion would not require immediate action from  whoever  might  be  guarding  Gerhard’s  base  –  mercs  or  poachers  or rangers, or a mix of the three. Let the unsuspecting ‘primitives’ blunder into danger; they could easily be taken out …


‘Get  ready,  eh?’  hissed  Yonker.  Senosi  spoke  to  his  warriors  in  his  own tongue – whether giving instructions or a last-minute pep talk, Grant didn’t know. 


Grant  checked  for  the  hundredth  time  that  he  was  holding  Moth’s  catty correctly and his ammo was good to go. Senosi’s people had shown Moth how to drill into tree bark to get sticky sap – and how to use it to upgrade stones  into  weapons  that  could  take  out  a  titanoboa.  She’d  carefully  filed the  sides  of  the  stones  to  sharp  edges  and  rubbed  them  in  beetle  larvae poison.  Grant  had  a  whole  bunch  of  them  in  his  pouch  and  had  wrapped strips  of  fabric  around  his  fingertips  to  protect  him  from  accidental scratches. 


‘Not safe!’ Roland bellowed at Moth and Xai as they drew closer. ‘It’s a trap! Get back!’


Xai and Moth didn’t heed Roland’s warning, but Xai’s hand crept towards the shank of fabric over his shoulder. 


Suddenly,  as  if  the  intruders  had  crossed  some  invisible  line,  there  was movement  from  a  ramshackle  outbuilding  perhaps  twenty  metres  behind Roland. An enormous serpent uncoiled, pushing itself across the dusty land towards the intruders at horrible speed. Its jaws were wide open, gruesome fangs curving out, as long as ice picks. 


But  Xai  stood  his  ground.  He  grabbed  a  grenade  from  the  strap  beneath the fabric, pulled the pin and lobbed it – straight down the snake’s gullet. At the same time, Moth hurled her spear, which caught in the titanoboa’s scaly body.  The  snake  hissed  and  shuddered.  Xai  and  Moth  turned  and  raced away.  But  Grant  knew  with  sickening  certainty  that  the  snake  would  be faster. It chased after them and reared up, ready to bring down its terrifying jaws –


Until it blew apart in a gory explosion as the grenade detonated. 


‘Take  out  the  CCTV  camera,’  Roland  called  hoarsely,  jerking  his  head towards the building behind him. Xai produced a gun and shot it twice. The second bullet blew the camera apart. 


At the same time, Yonker lobbed a grenade at the fence, close to a CCTV


camera mounted on a supporting pole. Grant lowered his head and covered his ears as the grenade exploded. Dust and dirt showered down all around, and  when  he  looked  again,  the  wire  fence  was  torn  and  twisted  open,  a dusty crater blown open at its base. 


But as the haze began to clear, Grant saw another giant titanoboa already sidewinding towards them. 


Ralph was trying to breathe through his shirt. His throat was stinging and he felt  light-headed.  He’d  heard  explosions  outside,  was  terrified  about  what might have happened. But when the loud metallic rattle of a key turning on the other side of the door sounded, he willed himself to focus. He nodded to Luke, who nodded back, wide-eyed and frightened. 


Then the heavy door handle swung upwards and the thick cold-room door opened.  A  man,  wearing  a  face  mask  and  carrying  a  handgun,  peered cautiously into the room. Luke grabbed him with both hands and dragged him  forward,  propelling  him  into  the  smoke.  Another  man  came  in,  also wielding  a  revolver.  Ralph  threw  a  punch,  but  knew  he  was  too  slow  and sluggish  from  the  smoke:  the  man  feinted  out  of  the  way.  But  Luke  was faster, and brought both fists down on the back of the man’s neck. As the guard fell to his knees, Ralph tried to grab the gun, but the man would not relinquish it. 


‘Come on!’ Luke yelled. ‘Before reinforcements arrive!’


Cursing,  Ralph  abandoned  his  struggle  for  the  gun  and  dived  out  of  the room. Luke slammed the door shut and locked it. 


Ralph lay on the floor, panting. ‘What if they suffocate in there?’


Over  the  whine  of  the  alarm  there  were  two  gunshots  and  the  sound  of breaking glass. 


‘They’ve  got  ventilation  now.  And  they  can  stuff  the  sheet  in  the incinerator and slam the door to stop it smoking.’ Luke dragged Ralph to his feet. ‘How about we try worrying about ourselves –’


‘And find that data centre,’ Ralph agreed, starting off along the corridor as muffled shouts and crashes sounded from behind the door. ‘If those snakes can’t be stopped, there’s gonna be a bloodbath!’


For Grant, the sight of the titanoboa so close brought a terror so primal, it was all he could do not to turn and run gibbering into the bush. But Yonker stood up and sprayed the monster with rounds from the AK-47. The bullets beat into the beast’s hide, but they were unable to pierce it. As Yonker kept going, Grant fired off the catapult as fast as he could. But his first two rocks bounced off the beast, and only three spears out of the eight thrown by the tribespeople managed to penetrate their target. 


And  then  the  titanoboa  smashed  through  the  ruins  of  the  fence  and  was suddenly there in front of them, a quivering mass of rage and bile, hissing and spitting, red eyes like blazing coals in its face. Yonker fell to one knee and fired up at its mouth, chipping ivory from its fangs. The snake lunged for  him,  its  mouth  closing  around  his  head  and  shoulders,  but  Yonker jammed the rifle lengthways into those terrible jaws so they couldn’t close. 


Hissing wildly, the snake smashed into Senosi, knocking him flat. A Bakho man tried to grip the rippling body, stabbing at it with Yonker’s commando knife, but the snake shook him free then used its head as a battering ram to smash two more men to the ground. Grant lost his footing and fell on his back,  which  caused  the  snake  to  notice  him  for  the  first  time.  It  hissed harder, acidic saliva dripping from its wedged-open jaws. 


As the great head came down to crush his chest, Grant raised the catty and fired. One of Moth’s poisoned missiles struck its left eye, which burst open with  a  disgusting  wet  plop.  The  snake  started  to  thrash  around  in  agony, blood spurting from the ruined socket. The surviving Bakho warriors hurled themselves  at  the  predasaur  along  its  hideous  length,  working  together, gripping hold of it and trying to pin it down. Yonker pulled a revolver from a hip holster. Grant closed his eyes, and heard the gunshot. Then there was silence. 


Grant shuddered. He helped Senosi up from the ground. Tears streaked his face. 


‘Gope is dead,’ he said, pointing to one of his fallen comrades. ‘It cannot be  for  nothing.  We’ve  done  so  much  to  fight  in  secret.  Now  it  is  time  to fight back in the open.’


‘And we’d better get going,’ said Grant, looking to where Xai and Moth were  working  to  free  Roland  from  his  chains.  ‘Looks  like  they  could  use some help. We’ll have lost the element of surprise now.’


‘And  we  don’t  know  how  many  more  of  those  oversized  jelly  snakes they’ve  got  in  store  for  us,’  Yonker  said,  pushing  his  way  through  the splintered fence. 


‘Only one way to find out,’ Grant muttered, and followed Yonker into the compound. 


The alarms had shut off. Robyn felt the world growing more distant around her.  She  felt  light-headed,  her  arms  and  legs  filled  with  pins  and  needles. 


Her  skin  was  soaked  with  sweat  and  her  head  throbbed.  She  could  hear, behind her, Abi cleaning and sterilising a syringe for the medic, cooling the barrel with ether spray to lower the chance of clotting. Robyn looked at the cannula protruding from her wrist, secured in place with a bulldog clip to avoid  further  damage  to  the  vein,  and  wondered  how  much  blood  she’d already given, and how much more she had to lose. 


She  heard  raised  voices  from  the  room  next  door,  though  they  might  as well have come from a thousand miles away. 


‘CCTV’s down,’ Gerhard shouted. ‘I need eyes out there.’


A  woman’s  voice  came,  anxious  and  puzzled:  ‘Life  signs  of  second titanoboa registered a huge spike in adrenaline, then nothing.’


‘They can’t both be dead!’ Gerhard was seething. ‘How can two primitive tribespeople kill a –’


‘It’s got to be Ballantyne’s friends, disguised,’ Abrafo raged. ‘I said you were a fool to leave Ballantyne above ground.’


‘You want to get paid?’ Gerhard snarled. ‘Get Ballantyne! Stop whatever’s going on.’ A pause. Then: ‘You – go with them.’ (Who was he talking to now?  Robyn  wasn’t  sure.)  ‘Take   
that  
 with  you.  Do  whatever  it  takes  to make  the  thing  responsive.  I  take  it   
those
  vital  signs  are  still  online,  at least?’


The  words  didn’t  make  sense  any  more.  It  didn’t  matter.  ‘Dad,’  Robyn breathed, struggling to sit up from the trolley she lay on. ‘Got to help Dad


…’


Abi turned from Niko with a bloodied syringe and pushed Robyn firmly back down. ‘From the sound of things,’ she said, ‘it’s whoever set off that alarm that’s going to need all the help they can get.’


Grant was first to catch up with Moth and Xai; they’d reached Roland and were  hammering  with  rocks  at  the  point  where  the  chains  that  bound  his ankle met the post. They were flattening the heavy link but couldn’t break it. 


Roland beamed at Grant as he came near. ‘Good to see you.’


‘Mutual,’  Grant  said,  and  passed  Xai  a  piece  of  twisted  gate  post  blown off by the grenade. ‘Here. Might work as a crowbar?’


‘It might,’ Xai said, and set to work. 


‘There was an alarm inside the facility,’ Roland said. ‘It’s stopped.’


Grant  jumped  at  the  sound  of  two  muffled  gunshots  and  glass  breaking. 


He saw thick smoke blowing out from the window of a bunker perhaps fifty metres away. ‘What’s going on?’


‘Nothing  we  can’t  make  worse!’  Yonker  had  arrived.  He  helped  Xai  to lever the improvised crowbar against the heavy chain link. It gave, just as the Bakho warriors arrived with Senosi. 


Moth  snatched  the  catty  from  Grant’s  pocket.  ‘Thanks  for  looking  after this.’


‘It saved our lives, Motholeli,’ Senosi told her. ‘And it reminds me – the smallest of weapons can bring down the biggest of enemies.’


Grant  smiled.  ‘When  we  first  met,  you  said  no  one  ever  noticed  you. 


Guess you were wrong.’


Moth looked down shyly, but Grant saw pride in her face. 


Roland  picked  up  the  length  of  chain  attached  to  his  ankle.  ‘No  time  to take this off now,’ he said. ‘Whatever else is happening in there, Robyn and Ralph and Niko are inside. And Gerhard, Abrafo, Rontane …’


‘Quite  the  party,  eh?’  Yonker  said,  loading  a  fresh  clip  into  his  AK-47. 


‘Time we crashed it.’


‘That’s  the  way  in.’  Roland  pointed  to  an  unassuming,  dilapidated  old building. ‘There’s a hidden lift inside –’


His words were cut off as the doors to the building were kicked open and two  poachers  appeared  with  rifles.  Before  anyone  could  react,  Moth  had loosed a stone from her catty. It struck the poacher on the left straight in the forehead. As he twisted with the impact, his rifle barrel caught his comrade under the chin, knocking him backwards. 


Yonker  laughed  and  slapped  a  hand  on  Moth’s  shoulder  as  she  breathed out shakily. ‘Now you’re just showing off!’


The Bakho warriors were not wasting the advantage Moth had won. They ran straight for the doors. One of them produced a blowpipe from his quiver and  fired  something  at  the  fallen  men,  who  twitched  and  then  lay  still. 


Another  confiscated  the  poachers’  weapons  and  held  them  aloft  to  show Senosi, who called to him approvingly in Bakho. 


Xai looked at Senosi. ‘They sleep?’


‘Yes.’ Senosi smiled thinly. ‘But not for ever.’


‘Let’s hope we catch the rest napping,’ said Roland, as Yonker passed him a handgun. ‘We have to get my children and Niko to safety.’


‘And take back what is ours,’ Senosi added. 


‘And cleanse the land of Gerhard’s homemade monsters,’ said Yonker. 


 
Amen to all that
, thought Grant, as Roland led the advance, braced for the final battle. 




29


Since the fire alarm had cut out, Ralph’s ears were ringing. He wanted to tear through the corridors, but Luke’s limp was holding them back big-time. 


Ralph  felt  sick  to  think  about  what  injuries  Luke  must  have  sustained when  the  cave  hyenas  had  attacked,  but  he  was  also  well  aware  of  the CCTV cameras positioned throughout the building. He wondered who else would come to investigate the fire in the mortuary, and how long it would be before the staff trapped inside were freed. Then again, they hadn’t come across anyone evacuating yet, so the compound could only be running with a skeleton staff. 


 
Perhaps we stand a chance
, Ralph thought.  
If we can find the server room,
 
knock out the titanoboas so it’s safe to get to Dad …


They  passed  a  door  in  the  wall.  Ralph  opened  it,  but  it  was  only  a storeroom, filled with huge drums of purified water. 


‘Where d’you think the servers will be?’ he asked Luke. 


‘No clue without knowing the layout,’ Luke said, grimacing as he tried to match Ralph’s pace along the corridor. ‘I mean … the data centre might be off-site for all we know.’


‘Off-site?’ Ralph groaned. ‘How are we meant to get to it, then? We saw those snakes take up position. If we go out above ground, they’ll kill us –’


‘So, we search down here first,’ Luke said. 


But as they rounded the corner Ralph froze. At the end of the corridor was Rontane. She stood with one of the men who’d escorted Ralph here with the titanoboas; now, as then, he was holding a tablet. 


Rontane spotted the boys. ‘Get them!’ she screamed. 


But Ralph was already turning, pushing Luke ahead of him. 


‘I can’t outrun them,’ Luke hissed. 


‘I know. Hide in that storeroom,’ said Ralph. ‘I’ll try to lead them away. 


When it’s clear, start looking for the data centre again.’


‘I will.’ Luke slipped into the storeroom and Ralph closed the door quietly before running ahead. He lingered near a junction, waiting for Rontane and her ally to come into sight so he could be sure they would follow him. 


But it wasn’t Rontane he saw, or the man with the tablet. Instead, the dark hulk of a rhino covered in coarse hair appeared. He’d seen it on Gerhard’s tour – it was clearly a juvenile, but its head was already at his chest height. 


Its eyes were pink, and the horn curving up from its bestial forehead looked tough enough to bore through Ralph’s ribcage. 


Wrong-footed,  Ralph  tried  to  think.  The  rhino  must  have  escaped  from somewhere.  Then  he  pictured  the  man  with  the  tablet,  and  guessed  that  it wasn’t only snakes Gerhard was working to control; even now, his assistant was  seeing  out  of  the  dim  eyes  of  a  beast  constructed  from  an  unholy mixture of ancient DNA and cutting-edge science. 


‘I  guess  it  does  work  for  four  legs  as  well  as  none,’  Ralph  breathed. 


‘Damn it.’


The  creature  took  a  few  faltering  steps  towards  him.  Ralph  knew  that modern-day rhinos didn’t have great vision, so their instinct was to charge at the unknown in case it was a threat that could be scared away. But this Ice  Age  throwback’s  instincts  would  have  been  supplanted  by  the murderous desire of its creator, and Ralph knew that any charge could only end with deadly force. 


He  turned  and  ran  as  the  woolly  rhino  broke  into  a  stumbling  charge. 


Behind him he could hear the uncertain stomp of its heavy feet, like a giant drumming its fingers. Ralph knew it could outrun him; his only chance lay in making it change direction to slow it down. 


Skidding  around  a  sharp  corner,  Ralph  pushed  himself  faster.  There  was an almighty crash behind him that almost knocked him off his feet; unable


to change course in time, the rhino had shoulder-charged the wall. Its feet slipping on the smooth floor tiles, the rhino started running again. 


Panic-stricken, Ralph barged through a fire door and found himself at the top  of  a  dimly  lit  staircase.  Surely  steps  would  slow  down  a  rhinoceros? 


Ralph hurled himself down the steps three at a time. The beast behind him smashed  through  the  door  and  didn’t  hesitate  –  it  stumbled  on,  banging against the concrete walls and slipping on the steps, its gasps and grunts of pain and anger growing hoarser, louder in Ralph’s ears. 


One  single  thought  hammered  through  his  mind,  as  relentless  as  the rhino’s footfalls.  
It’s gaining on me
. 


Finally, Ralph ran out of staircase and into a concrete cul-de-sac, bare but for a dark green wooden door. He tried it. 


Locked. 


The  woolly  rhino,  frantic  and  bloodied  from  its  descent  of  the  staircase, thundered down the last steps towards Ralph, out of control. 


Grant stood in the ruins of the miners’ canteen, staring out of the door. He and  Moth  were  standing  guard  while  Roland,  Xai,  Yonker  and  the  Bakho searched methodically for a way to access the lower levels. The button that Roland had seen Gerhard press to summon the hidden lift no longer seemed to work. 


Moth pointed to what looked like a dust storm gathering in the distance. 


There was a dark, roiling whirlwind inside the thick cloud. ‘Hey, everyone


– titanoboa coming this way. Close the door.’


‘That thing wouldn’t keep out a hungry aardvark,’ said Yonker, hurrying over  to  the  doorway.  Roland  and  Xai  joined  him,  firearms  cocked  and ready, and Yonker took another grenade from his shoulder strap, pulled the pin  and  hurled  it  overarm  into  the  path  of  the  giant  snake.  But  to  Grant’s horror,  the  titanoboa  simply  turned  sharply  away  from  its  original  course, neatly skirting the grenade as it fragmented in a blistering blast. 


‘It’s being controlled, like the others,’ Grant said. ‘They must be able to see what it sees.’


‘Then let them see bullets!’ Xai hissed, and he and Roland opened fire on the writhing monstrosity. It retreated, waiting until they had exhausted their


ammo,  then  surged  back  towards  them.  Moth  fired  stone  after  stone,  but only one embedded itself in the deadly serpent, not enough to finish it. 


Senosi spoke quietly to his warriors in Bakho, and they trooped outside to fight. ‘We’ll keep the snake occupied out there,’ Senosi told Roland. ‘The time we buy you …’


‘We’ll use it.’ Roland grasped his hand in a firm shake. ‘Use it well.’


The titanoboa was hissing as it wound closer with horrible speed. Boldly, Senosi stepped outside to face it with the warriors. 


‘I’m going to help them,’ Xai said. Roland and Yonker began to argue, but he shouted over them. ‘Grant – close the door after me.’


Grant hesitated. And in that split-second, Moth slipped out after Xai. 


‘No!’  Yonker  started  after  her  even  as  the  door  slammed  shut.  Then  a gunshot rang out. Yonker gasped, went rigid, then collapsed. 


‘What?’  Grant  stared  at  Yonker’s  fallen  body  in  horror.  Roland,  with  a soldier’s  professional  training,  had  turned  and  raised  his  weapon immediately. 


Only to find he could not fire. 


Abrafo stepped out of the hidden lift. Grant stared in disbelief: the poacher was holding Luke in a neck-lock, and had a revolver jammed up against his temple. 


‘Found this joke of a boy hiding in a storeroom,’ he snarled. ‘Drop your weapon, Ballantyne, before I drop the kid’s brains all over the floor.’


Luke closed his eyes, shaking with fear. ‘Please don’t kill me.’


Roland  looked  at  Yonker,  then  at  Grant.  Then  he  closed  his  eyes  and dropped the gun. Outside, Senosi’s warriors yelled battle cries and bullets fired. 


‘Let’s  move,’  Abrafo  said.  ‘Get  in  this  lift,  now.  Hands  on  your  heads. 


Don’t try anything, or this punk pays the price.’


Grant placed his hands on the back of his head, as Roland did the same. 


‘Where are my children?’ Roland demanded. 


‘Your  daughter’s  dying  on  the  operating  table.’  Abrafo  smirked  as  they entered the lift. ‘As for your son –’


‘There was a rhino,’ Luke said, his voice a hoarse rasp through Abrafo’s chokehold. ‘Woolly rhino …’


‘Chased him right down to the lowest level, by the sounds of it,’ Abrafo agreed brightly. ‘Still, Rontane ought to have scraped what’s left of him off the floor by now. Press the button for floor −3, Khumalo, and we’ll check it out.’


Grant hit the −3 button and the door slid closed. 


‘Going down,’ Abrafo murmured, dark eyes shining. 


For Ralph, as the woolly rhinoceros closed the distance between them, time seemed to slow. At the last possible moment, Ralph flung himself aside and the beast charged into the door, knocking it down with a splintering crash that left the rhino screeching with pain and anger. Its legs gave way and it fell, its momentum sending it skidding into the shadows. 


A  foul  stink  wafted  from  out  of  the  dark.  Feeling  sick  from  the  rush  of adrenaline, Ralph started to force himself back up the stairs. But he could hear footsteps coming down towards him, and familiar voices. 


‘We need the boy,’ Rontane announced to her companion, ‘or what’s left of  him.  Show  his  head  to  Ballantyne  and  he’ll  know  we’re  not  bluffing when it comes to killing his girl …’


Fear clawed at Ralph’s chest, but he wasn’t giving up now. He turned and crept  through  the  splintered  door  into  the  warm,  fetid  darkness.  A  heavy thrum  of  power  was  coming  from  somewhere  ahead.  
Generators
,  Ralph realised. Like Crocodile Lodge – which was far enough away from urban infrastructure  to  need  its  own  microgrid  –  this  place  must  tick  over  on  a battery energy storage system fed by the solar panels, with diesel generators kicking  in  when  necessary.  Perhaps  if  he  could  take  out  the  power  down here, the predasaur beasts would be free, and Gerhard wouldn’t be able to control them? 


His feet splashed softly; either a pipe had burst, or floodwater must have drained  into  this  basement  area  without  Gerhard  knowing.  Suddenly  he realised he couldn’t hear the woolly rhino. Was the beast unconscious? No sounds of movement carried over the penetrating high-voltage hum. But the thick, musky smell was getting stronger. 


Gingerly, Ralph felt his way through the pitch blackness and came up hard against something metal. First, he thought it was a cage; then he realised he was flanked by wide, flat prongs. Reaching forward into the ‘cage’, he felt a


steering wheel.  
It’s a forklift truck
, he realised. Turning aside and groping blindly, he came up against some wooden shelving units; they would offer some cover, at least. 


‘Ralph?’ Rontane’s voice carried through the dark; she had moved softly and sounded horribly close. ‘No good hiding, boy. It’s all gone too far. Time we ended things.’


Ralph  moved  as  quietly  as  he  dared  over  the  damp  ground,  retreating behind the shelving. 


He heard the click of a safety catch. ‘I’ll end it quickly, Ralph,’ Rontane said. ‘Man, where’s that damn light switch?’


‘Here somewhere,’ the technician muttered from nearer the doorway. 


Finally  there  was  a   
thunk
  of  a  heavy  switch  being  thrown,  and  a  fiery orange  light  warmed  the  room  from  a  large  bulb  hanging  down  from  the ceiling.  Ralph  blinked  furiously  to  clear  his  eyes.  He  saw  the  banks  of batteries  stacked  parallel  to  the  basement  wall,  each  trailing  a  thick spaghetti  of  cables  up  along  the  brickwork  to  the  ceiling.  Rontane  held  a hunting rifle, pointing it at the shadows as she turned in a slow, deliberate circle. 


But,  squinting  into  the  gloom  at  head  height,  Rontane  failed  to  notice  a movement at her feet. Something stirring in the black floodwater. 


Ralph  felt  paralysed  with  horror.  It  was  as  if  the  dark  tentacles  of  some monstrous  creature  were  breaking  the  scummy  surface.  But  then  his  eyes made sense of what he was seeing, and he held his breath once more. 


Each sinuous strand of scaly flesh was alive. 


Each was a boa constrictor with raw, bloodshot eyes. These creatures were a normal size, not huge and thick like the titanoboas he’d seen earlier, and their skin looked smoother, almost transparent. 


Ralph realised that the snakes were very young. Babies. 


And that the colossal titanoboa slowly emerging from its lair behind the batteries must be their mother. 




30


The  technician  screamed  out  a  frantic  warning.  Ralph  jumped.  Rontane spun around, saw the serpent dart from out of the shadows, and opened fire. 


But the young snakes attacked the poacher together, slithering up her legs and coiling around her torso. Rontane cried out, dropped the gun and tried to prise the snakes away, but they climbed up her body and tightened their grip.  She  doubled  over.  Ralph  saw  her  eyes  fix  on  his  own  in  awful, pleading silence. Her face contorted with agony, but not a sound shook out from  her.  The  snakes’  tails  wound  around  her  neck  like  living  ropes, garrotting  her,  cutting  tighter  and  tighter.  Her  eyes  bulged  and  her  face turned crimson, until finally her lifeless body fell, stiff as a tree trunk, the snakes still clinging to it like ivy. 


The trundling slide of a lift door opening broke the shocked silence, then the babble of the technician as he ran for it. ‘Let me in! We can’t control those monsters –’


‘Shut up!’ Abrafo snarled as he stepped out of the lift. Ralph’s heart felt like it might swallow itself. 


‘The titanoboas can breed!’ the technician cried. ‘The experiment’s out of control, we have to –’


‘I  said,  
shut up
!’  Abrafo’s  words  were  punctuated  by  a  pistol  shot.  The technician  staggered  backwards,  a  crimson  stain  swelling  over  his  white coat, disbelief on his face. 


Then the jaws of the mother titanoboa closed around him. 


Finally, Ralph screamed. 


‘There.’ Robyn heard Abi’s voice as if it came from the other side of the moon. ‘We’ve done all we can.’


Robyn’s  eyes  flickered  open.  She  felt  heavy  and  sick.  There  was  Niko, lying  on  the  trolley,  barely  visible  beneath  an  oxygen  mask,  electrodes, tubes and wires. A portable diagnostic unit beeped steadily next to her. 


‘When … will you know?’ Robyn murmured. 


‘You’ve pulled through, Robyn. You’re stronger than you look,’ said the medic. ‘The next eight hours will be crucial. Abi, stay with them. I’ll tell Gerhard the procedure’s finished.’


After he left, Abi looked down at Robyn. ‘Well, now. Here we are. Alone together. No one watching.’


Robyn  felt  a  shiver  of  fear  as  Abi  took  a  step  closer,  her  blue  eyes  icy hard. 


‘Yes,’ Abi breathed. ‘It’s really finished.’


She raised a syringe and loomed over Robyn. 


Just like Roland, Luke and Abrafo, Grant stared in horror as the thrashing technician was swallowed by the giant serpent. And as Ralph’s cry carried over the glottal sucking noises, Roland looked shaken to his core. 


‘Ralph?’ he bellowed. 


Grant  seized  his  chance.  Abrafo  hadn’t  moved  his  gun  back  to  threaten Luke since shooting the technician – perhaps in shock at the scene playing out in front of him. Now Grant flattened his hand and chopped it down on Abrafo’s wrist. The poacher dropped the gun, which clattered to the floor beside  the  stagnant  water  –  and  at  the  same  moment,  Luke  threw  himself forward, tearing free of Abrafo’s grip and sending the poacher off balance. 


Roland  seized  his  chance  with  both  hands.  With  a  roar  he  dragged  the poacher out of the lift and into the fetid basement. But Abrafo twisted and broke Roland’s grip. Landing on his knees, he pushed forward and butted Roland in the stomach. Roland fell back into the shallow water. 


Grant saw a snake as thick as a man’s leg rise from Rontane’s body and rear up over Roland. Snatching the fallen gun, Grant fired and the snake fell back. At the same time, Roland punched Abrafo in the neck, put a foot to


his chest and pushed him back. Luke grabbed hold of the poacher and got him in a neck-lock. But Abrafo bit down on Luke’s arm and elbowed him in the  ribs.  Luke  fell  back,  banging  his  head  on  the  ground,  and  lay  still  as Abrafo bellowed his defiance, his teeth stained red with Luke’s blood. 


Grant  went  to  fire  a  warning  shot  over  Abrafo’s  head.  But  the  chamber was  empty;  the  gun  was  useless.  He  saw  that  the  mother  titanoboa  had finished  with  the  technician  and  now  its  hellish  red  eyes  were  sweeping about, looking for its next prey. 


‘Help me, someone!’ Ralph shouted. 


Roland tried to go to him, but Abrafo grabbed hold of him again. 


 
It’s down to me
, thought Grant. 


As Roland and Abrafo grappled, Grant ran through the water and jumped the hissing frenzy of the snakes. For a second he couldn’t see Ralph. Then he  saw  movement  in  the  forklift  truck  –  Ralph  was  leaning  in,  grappling with something. It was Rontane’s gun. 


‘I’m trying to jam it in place,’ he said. ‘Help me.’


Grant understood. ‘Jam it against the accelerator pedal?’


Ralph  nodded  quickly.  ‘We  have  one  of  these  at  the  lodge  for  shifting cages. If we can get the angle right …’


‘We can put it in gear and spear that thing!’ Grant agreed. 


Even as he spoke, the titanoboa surged forward. A curved fang caught the side  of  the  forklift  and  nearly  knocked  it  over.  Ralph  fell  backwards, sprawling on the floor. 


The titanoboa gave a hiss of triumph as it zeroed in on its target, its jaws open wide. Grant grabbed at Ralph’s arm and pulled him clear just in the nick of time. Then he caught a blur of movement from the shadows: a dark, shaggy form breaking from the back of the basement to charge. 


It  was  a  woolly  rhino,  its  hide  bloody,  its  horn  broken.  But  anger  was giving  it  strength.  The  titanoboa’s  head  swung  down  and  it  looked  at  the rhino.  The  rhino  charged  it,  and  a  shockwave  rippled  through  the  snake’s bloated scaly body, like a giant shaking out a lasso. The snake slammed into the battery store and lay there, stunned. In seconds, two smaller boas were wrapping themselves around the woolly rhino, which stomped angrily in a circle, trying to shake its attackers off. It bundled into Roland and Abrafo, who  were  still  fighting.  Abrafo  screamed  as  a  heavy  foot  stamped  on  his


ankle, and he fell back in the water. Roland jumped onto the juvenile beast’s back like he’d joined a rodeo, desperately gripping the fur on its neck. 


‘Don’t  just  sit  there  watching!’  Ralph  was  back  wrestling  with  the forklift’s controls, sticking it into gear. ‘Hit the power!’


Grant  reached  forward  into  the  truck  and  slammed  his  fingers  against  a green button. There was a loud electric whine and an orange light flashed on the roof of the forklift. Then the vehicle raced towards the titanoboa. 


But  it  was  too  slow.  The  snake  easily  moved  out  of  the  way.  Grant could’ve screamed with frustration. 


But he hadn’t banked on what happened next. The twin spears missed the huge  body  but  penetrated  the  racks  of  batteries.  High-voltage  charge  spat from  inside  with  a  fierce  crackle,  conducted  by  the  floodwater.  The overhead  light  flashed  like  a  strobe,  showing  the  titanoboa  squealing  and convulsing in ghastly snatches of motion as the electricity overwhelmed it. 


Abrafo,  too,  jerked  and  rocked  in  the  flow  of  power,  screaming  in  agony, until the thrashing serpent fell, a dead weight …


…  and  its  fangs  speared  the  poacher  through  the  chest.  He  gave  a  last, gurgling groan of agony. 


Mercifully, the light bulb shattered and all light was extinguished. 


‘Is everyone all right?’ Ralph yelled. 


Grant  put  a  hand  on  Ralph’s  shoulder.  Held  his  breath.  Waited  for  the longest time in silence. 


Then  pale  grey  emergency  lights  clunked  on  in  the  ceiling.  Roland Ballantyne stood in front of them, supporting Luke beside him. They were bruised and bloody but smiling. Roland hugged his son. 


‘We’re  all  right,’  Roland  said.  ‘Got  out  of  the  water  just  before  the batteries went in.’


Ralph just held him in silence. Grant found himself wishing that he could hold his own father in the same way. 


‘Even that damn woolly rhino’s all right,’ Luke said, shaking his head in disbelief. He laughed, relief shining through his weariness. 


Roland  extricated  himself  from  Ralph’s  grip  and  went  to  check  on  the titanoboa.  ‘Dead,’  he  reported.  ‘And  thank  God.  In  extreme  cases  female boas can produce live young without mating – it’s called parthenogenesis. 


But  for  spontaneous  birth  to  have  occurred  in  a  Frankenstein  species  like the  
predasaur
 …’


‘They  really  can’t  be  controlled,’  Ralph  muttered.  ‘Whatever  Gerhard thinks.’


Roland  had  moved  on  to  Abrafo’s  body.  It  was  bloodied  and  horribly burnt. 


Ralph grimaced. ‘That’s the end of him, right?’


‘Finally.’  Roland  showed  no  triumph;  his  voice  was  empty  of  emotion. 


‘Perhaps  if  I’d  finished  things  better  all  those  years  ago,  things  would  be different now. Perhaps Yonker would be –’


‘Back  to  annoy  your  sorry  asses!’  a  familiar  voice  boomed  from  the gloom. 


‘Yonker!’ Roland crossed to embrace him. ‘You’re all right?’


‘After  the  last  time  I  got  shot,  you  think  I  wouldn’t  wear  a  combat  vest under  my  clothes?’  He  slapped  Roland  on  the  back.  ‘Now,  my  old chommie, don’t waste the love on me. After taking down that damn snake outside, we could  
all
 use some sweetness …’


Grant looked past Yonker and saw Moth limp into sight from the stairway, helping Xai, and Senosi, supported by one of his warriors. 


‘The others?’ Grant asked softly. ‘Did they make it?’


Moth looked at Senosi, then shook her head sadly. 


‘Come on,’ Roland said. ‘We still have to find Robyn and Niko.’


‘And Gerhard,’ said Ralph. ‘Let’s finish this.’


‘Abi!’  Gerhard  was  banging  on  the  glass  observation  window.  ‘Get  the Ballantyne girl out here.’


‘She’s sleeping, sir,’ Abi reported. 


‘Then  wheel  her  out.  Now!’  The  medic  was  trying  to  show  Gerhard something on the tablet, but Gerhard just shoved him away. ‘The titanoboas are  dead.  I  can’t  raise  my  rangers  on  the  radio,  not  even  those  damned poachers  …’  Abruptly,  the  lights  died.  A  pale  luminescence  seeped  from emergency bulbs high in the wall. 


‘The  power’s  out.’  Abi  studied  Niko’s  vital  signs  monitor,  which  had switched automatically to the emergency power supply. ‘Ballantyne’s mob must be on their way.’


‘Of  course  they  are,’  Gerhard  snapped,  putting  on  a  face  mask.  ‘And there’s  no  one  left  to  stop  them.  So,  bring  Robyn  out  here.  At  least  then we’ll have something to bargain with.’


Abi  looked  down  at  Robyn,  lying  so  still  beneath  the  crisp  white  sheet. 


Slowly, she pushed the trolley out of the operating room to join Gerhard in the adjacent area. 


‘There  she  is,’  Gerhard  said,  looking  down  at  Robyn.  ‘The  girl  who’ll make me the richest man on Earth and ensure I live to collect …’ He peered more closely at her then turned to Abi and frowned. ‘She’s not dead? She can’t be.’ Panic-stricken, he bent over to put his ear to her chest. ‘I need her to keep Ballantyne at bay. I need her blood, she can’t be –’


‘ 
Dead
?’  Robyn  pulled  her  right  hand  from  under  the  sheet  –  in  it,  she clutched the syringe that Abi had given her – and plunged the hypodermic needle  deep  into  Gerhard’s  neck.  He  gasped,  jerked  away,  and  pulled  out the  needle.  A  little  jet  of  blood  arced  out.  He  stared  at  the  syringe  in  his hand, looking shaken and affronted. 


‘What the hell!’ he spluttered. ‘Abigail?’


‘Sorry,  sir,’  Abi  said  calmly.  ‘I’m  afraid  you’ve  just  been  injected  with curare.  We  use  it  on  the  predasaurs  to  treat  the  muscle  spasms  you’ve induced in them.’


‘There was enough there to put out a cave hyena,’ Robyn added, swinging herself into a sitting position. ‘So, more than enough to end you.’


‘You’ll never get out of here,’ Gerhard hissed coldly. ‘Mbato is sending an extraction squad –’


‘So, ring him now and warn him to call it off, before the curare does its thing,’  said  Abi.  ‘You  have  about  four  minutes  before  full  body  paralysis sets in. You’ll be unconscious in five minutes, dead in under ten.’


‘Unless we give you this antidote,’ said Robyn, revealing another syringe in her left hand. She passed it to Abi. ‘Call Mbato now. Tell him someone got careless with the virus samples. This place has to stay in quarantine for seventy-two hours.’


‘Pathetic.’  Gerhard  staggered  and  leaned  heavily  against  the  wall.  ‘You think … think I’m going to …’


‘Going to do anything we ask?’ said Robyn. ‘Yes, we do. And right now.’


‘Because you really don’t have long,’ Abi said. ‘And you’d better sell it to Mbato good, so he stays away.’ She sneered at him. ‘Do it. Or die.’


Gerhard licked his dry lips. ‘If I do, you’ll let me die anyway.’


‘Why would we do that to you … when we can do  
this
?’ Abi held up her phone and played a voice memo. ‘ 
I’ll transfer funds to the usual account
, 
Abrafo,’
 Mbato’s voice said. ‘ 
With deductions in place for failing to hand
 
over Xai and the Khumalo boy. 
’


‘ 
You got the Ballantynes! 
’ Abrafo protested. ‘ 
They’re the real targets. 
’


‘ 
Strictly  speaking
,’  Gerhard  said  smoothly,  ‘ 
it  was  me  who  successfully
 
abducted the Ballantyne children. 
’


‘Oh yes,’ said Robyn as Abi paused the message. ‘See, we really do want you  alive,  Gerhard.  You  can  clear  our  names   
and
  confess  to  what  you’ve done. And you will.’


With a look of pure hatred, Gerhard took out his phone and called Mbato. 


It went to voicemail, and he left a message. Abi waited tensely. She doubted that Gerhard had ever taken an order in his life – but she also doubted that he had ever stared death quite so openly in the face either. 


He  kept  the  details  to  a  minimum.  His  voice  was  beginning  to  slur.  ‘I’ll hope to hear from you soon, Julius.’ His grey eyes were fixed viciously on Robyn and Abi as he spoke. ‘And don’t fret. You’ll get your hands on our prisoners soon enough.’


He hung up, just as the door banged open. Abi retreated behind Robyn as a dishevelled, ragtag group charged inside: Roland, Ralph, the van Rok boy. 


Xai and Senosi. A big bear of a man, and a girl with a catty …


‘Dad!’  Robyn  cried,  clinging  to  him  as  he  wrapped  her  in  his  arms. 


‘Ralph!’ Ralph piled in and hugged them both. 


The big man seized Abi with less affection. 


‘Don’t,’  Robyn  said.  ‘She’s  with  us.  After  what’s  happened,  she  hates Gerhard as much as we do.’


‘Give me the antidote,’ Gerhard rasped. ‘Give it to me!’


Xai pointed a gun at Gerhard. ‘Don’t move.’


‘He won’t be able to,’ said Abi, ‘if I don’t give him this adrenaline shot.’


Gerhard  sank  to  the  floor,  twitching.  ‘Save  me,’  he  groaned  as  his  eyes flickered shut. ‘Save … me …’


‘How  about  that,’  Abi  murmured.  ‘The  big  bad  genius  actually  believed I’d give him enough curare to kill him.’


‘He’ll be asleep for a good long time,’ said Robyn. 


‘Then  …  it’s  over.’  Senosi  was  crouching  over  the  bags  of  plant  matter Rontane had dumped on the floor. ‘The virus cure – there’s still a chance we can develop it. Help the world.’


‘A  good  chance,’  Abi  agreed,  ‘judging  by  Niko’s  vital  signs.  In  a  few hours we’ll know more but it’s looking good.’


‘We’re not exactly out of the woods yet, but I think we’re all going to be all right.’ Robyn smiled. ‘And guys, come on. What took you so long?’


EPILOGUE


Twenty-four hours later, Ralph had showered, changed and rested. The staff had  quarters  on  site  –  enough  rooms  for  everyone  to  have  one  to themselves. After so long sleeping in a car, or in a tree, or not sleeping at all, the feel of a soft bunk had felt completely alien. To get any sleep at all, Ralph had had to lie on the floor. 


He’d feared bad dreams, but sleep had passed in a gritty-eyed blur and he felt better for it, as he told his sister when he found her – not in her room, of course,  but  in  the  recovery  pen  with  the  juvenile  woolly  rhino.  Abi  had patched up the beast, and he was resting, like they all were. 


‘I’m beginning to feel halfway human,’ Ralph remarked. 


‘Halfway? For you, that must be a record,’ said Robyn with a smile. She was  looking  into  the  animal’s  pink  eyes.  It  made  Ralph  feel  uneasy:  a prehistoric beast, bred just a matter of months ago. 


‘That  thing  saved  a  lot  of  lives  in  the  power  room,’  Ralph  said  quietly, trying to feel more grateful. 


‘He has a spirit,’ Robyn said firmly. ‘A soul. Despite everything Gerhard did to him. I can reach him, help him. I know I can.’


Ralph  thought  of  Gerhard,  tied  up  in  an  office  chair  with  Xai  standing guard  over  him.  
See  how  he  likes  being  the  prisoner
,  thought  Ralph vengefully.  But  he  felt  uneasy.  Dad  had  said  they  needed  to  leave  by tomorrow  to  avoid  the  extraction  squad  Mbato  would  inevitably  send.  By then, Niko should be recovered enough to move out with them safely. They would  take  Gerhard  with  them  too  –  find  a  way  to  make  him  clear  their name.  Luke’s  computer  skills  had  got  them  inside  the  data  server  (which they’d discovered was beside the projected ‘film set’ Ralph had witnessed), and he’d hacked his way through security so that Roland and Grant could peruse evidence on all angles of Gerhard’s sick researches. 


But somehow, Ralph couldn’t imagine Gerhard taking defeat lying down. 


And they still had to make it out of the mountains and back to civilisation if they were to expose Mbato and convince the world that it was Gerhard who


had  created  the  new  pandemic,  not  their  family.  Ralph  wondered  if  he would ever feel safe again. 


‘I’ll  be  glad  if  you  can  reach  the  rhino,’  said  Ralph.  ‘I’m  just  relieved you’re  here  at  all,  to  be  honest.  I  mean,  I  thought  you  were  …  well.  You know.’


‘Yeah,  I  know.’  Robyn  looked  at  him.  ‘You  too.  Thought  you  must  be dead for sure.’


‘And  yet,  somehow,  we’re  not.’  Ralph  smiled  wryly.  ‘Maybe  we  should call it the Luke effect.’


‘I  still  can’t  believe  he  made  it.’  Robyn’s  smile  faded.  ‘Or  that  we  did. 


We’ve been so lucky. Luckier than Senosi’s people, anyway.’


Ralph  swallowed  hard,  remembering  the  emotions  that  had  washed  over him  when  they’d  buried  the  Bakho  warriors  in  the  dusty  land  outside  the compound:  land  that  truly  belonged  to  them,  whatever  the  government might say. 


‘I guess Grant’s little friend Moth is lucky, at least,’ said Ralph. ‘Senosi says she can hang with the tribe if she wants, learn more about her heritage. 


Course, he’ll be busy trying to perfect his virus miracle cure for a while …


but when they’re ready to share with the authorities, he wants her to come on the road with him, talk about the issues affecting her people.’


‘And will she?’


‘Grant’s not sure.’


‘It’s not realistic for Senosi to work by himself,’ said Robyn firmly. ‘Too many people need that cure, like, yesterday. I think Niko’s suggestion that he work with her colleagues at Sangomed is a good one.’


Ralph smiled. ‘It’s still so weird you’re, like, besties with Niko now.’


‘Well, I have to like her, don’t I?’ Robyn said. ‘She’s got my blood in her.’


‘Makes her a Ballantyne,’ Ralph said. ‘Family.’


The  door  opened,  and  Grant  peered  inside.  ‘Hey,  Robyn!’  he  began enthusiastically,  then  he  saw  Ralph  sitting  beside  her  and  couldn’t  quite hide a look of disappointment. ‘Uh … hi, Ralph. You OK?’


‘Getting there.’


‘Great.  Me  too.’  Grant  cleared  his  throat.  ‘Just  came  to  say,  Yonker’s ready to leave with Abi.’


‘Right, of course,’ Ralph said. Yonker was letting Moth stay with the tribe while he drove Abi across the border. ‘Off she goes to start a quiet new life, lying low in Mozambique.’


‘Shows that some people can change,’ Robyn said. 


‘If they meet the right people,’ Ralph agreed. ‘And God knows, we need to meet the right people if we’re gonna stand a chance of making it back to our old lives.’


‘Or  start  new  ones,’  Grant  murmured,  looking  at  Robyn.  Then  he shrugged  self-consciously.  ‘Anyway!  He’s  going,  and  Moth’s  off  to  stay with the Bakho while they’re gone, and … stuff. See ya down there.’


Grant exited. Ralph gave Robyn a look. ‘I was gonna say we’re all kind of like family now. But I’m thinking you want Grant to stay more of a friend


… or something.’


‘Or something,’ Robyn said with a faint smile. ‘But before any of us can start something new, we have to end this.’


‘Then let’s wave off Abi and Yonker and Moth and Senosi, and get back to  saving  our  strength.’  Ralph  looked  at  his  sister.  ‘Something  tells  me we’re going to need it.’




 
DISCOVER HOW THE PREDASAURS WERE FIRST


 
UNLEASHED …


Out now. 


Wilbur Smith
 is one of the most successful authors in the world, having sold over 130 million copies of his incredible adventure novels. Wilbur died in 2021, leaving behind him a treasure-trove of stories that will delight readers for years to come. 


Keith Chapman
 is a television writer and producer, best known as the creator of children’s television programmes  
Bob the Builder 
 and  
PAW


 
Patrol
. Keith originates from Norfolk and currently resides in Monaco. 


Steve Cole
 is the best-selling author of over 150 books. His work includes the  
Astrosaurs
 series, original fiction titles for  
Doctor Who
, the  
Young Bond
 series and  
Swarm Rising
 co-authored with astronaut Tim Peake. Steve lives and works in Buckinghamshire. 


For all the latest information about Wilbur, visit:


www.wilbursmithbooks.com


facebook.com/WilburSmith


www.wilbur-niso-smithfoundation.org




Wilbur Smith donates twenty per cent of profits received from the sale of this copy to The Wilbur & Niso Smith Foundation. The Foundation’s focus is to encourage adventure writing and literacy and find new talent. 


For more information, please visit www.wilbur-niso-smithfoundation.org


















Thank you for choosing a Hot Key book. 


For all the latest bookish news, freebies and exclusive content, sign up to the Hot Key newsletter – scan the


QR code or visit lnk.to/HotKeyBooks


Follow us on social media:


bonnierbooks.co.uk/HotKeyBooks


We hope to see you soon! 


First published in Great Britain in 2023 by HOT KEY BOOKS


4th Floor, Victoria House, Bloomsbury


Square


London WC1B 4DA


Owned by Bonnier Books


Sveavägen 56, Stockholm, Sweden


bonnierbooks.co.uk/HotKeyBooks


Text copyright © Orion Mintaka (UK) Ltd, 2023


Cover art copyright © Ramazan Kazaliev, 2023


All rights reserved. 


No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher. 


The right of Wilbur Smith, Steve Cole, Keith Chapman and Ramazan Kazaliev to be identified as authors and illustrator of this work has been asserted by hem in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. 


This is a work of fiction. Names, places, events and incidents are either the products of the author’s imagination or used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental. 


A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library. 


ISBN: 978-1-4714-1296-7


This eBook was produced using Atomik ePublisher Hot Key Books is an imprint of Bonnier Books UK


bonnierbooks.co.uk


Document Outline




Title Page


Contents


The PREY ZONE series


Dedication


Map


Prologue


Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4


Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7


Chapter 8


Chapter 9


Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12


Chapter 13


Chapter 14


Chapter 15


Chapter 16


Chapter 17


Chapter 18


Chapter 19


Chapter 20


Chapter 21


Chapter 22


Chapter 23


Chapter 24


Chapter 25


Chapter 26


Chapter 27


Chapter 28


Chapter 29


Chapter 30


Epilogue


Author Bios


The Wilbur & Niso Smith Foundation


Copyright




OceanofPDF.com



